<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Wed. Apr. 12.</span></p>

<p>I am 16 of age and am a caddy at the Pleasant View Golf Club but
only temporary as I expect to soon land a job some wheres as asst
pro as my game is good enough now to be a pro but to young looking.
My pal Joe Bean also says I have not got enough swell head
to make a good pro but suppose that will come in time, Joe is a
wise cracker.</p>

<p>But first will put down how I come to be writeing this diary, we
have got a member name Mr Colby who writes articles in the newspapers
and I hope for his sakes that he is a better writer then he
plays golf but any way I cadded for him a good many times last yr
and today he was out for the first time this yr and I cadded for him
and we got talking about this in that and something was mentioned
in regards to the golf articles by Alex Laird that comes out every
Sun in the paper Mr Colby writes his articles for so I asked Mr
Colby did he know how much Laird got paid for the articles and he
said he did not know but supposed that Laird had to split 50-50
with who ever wrote the articles for him. So I said don’t he write
the articles himself and Mr Colby said why no he guessed not.
Laird may be a master mind in regards to golf he said, but that is
no sign he can write about it as very few men can write decent let
alone a pro. Writeing is a nag.</p>

<p>How do you learn it I asked him.</p>

<p>Well he said read what other people writes and study them and
write things yourself, and maybe you will get on to the nag and
maybe you wont.</p>

<p>Well Mr Colby I said do you think I could get on to it?</p>

<p>Why he said smileing I did not know that was your ambition to
be a writer.</p>

<p>Not exactly was my reply, but I am going to be a golf pro myself
and maybe some day I will get good enough so as the papers will
want I should write them articles and if I can learn to write them
myself why I will not have to hire another writer and split with
them.</p>

<p>Well said Mr Colby smileing you have certainly got the right
temperament for a pro, they are all big hearted fellows.</p>

<p>But listen Mr Colby I said if I want to learn it would not do me
no good to copy down what other writers have wrote, what I would
have to do would be write things out of my own head.</p>

<p>That is true said Mr Colby.</p>

<p>Well I said what could I write about?</p>

<p>Well said Mr Colby why don’t you keep a diary and every night
after your supper set down and write what happened that day and
write who you cadded for and what they done only leave me out
of it. And you can write down what people say and what you think
and etc., it will be the best kind of practice for you, and once in a
wile you can bring me your writeings and I will tell you the truth
if they are good or rotten.</p>

<p>So that is how I come to be writeing this diary is so as I can get
some practice writeing and maybe if I keep at it long enough I can
get on to the nag.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Friday, Apr. 14.</span></p>

<p>We been haveing Apr. showers for a couple days and nobody out
on the course so they has been nothing happen that I could write
down in my diary but dont want to leave it go to long or will never
learn the trick so will try and write a few lines about a caddys life
and some of our members and etc.</p>

<p>Well I and Joe Bean is the 2 oldest caddys in the club and I been
cadding now for 5 yrs and quit school 3 yrs ago tho my mother did
not like it for me to quit but my father said he can read and write
and figure so what is the use in keeping him there any longer as
greek and latin dont get you no credit at the grocer, so they lied
about my age to the trunce officer and I been cadding every yr from
March till Nov and the rest of the winter I work around Heismans
store in the village.</p>

<p>Dureing the time I am cadding I genally always manage to play
at lease 9 holes a day myself on wk days and some times 18 and am
never more then 2 or 3 over par figures on our course but it is a cinch.</p>

<p>I played the engineers course 1 day last summer in 75 which is
some golf and some of our members who has been playing 20 yrs
would give their right eye to play as good as myself.</p>

<p>I use to play around with our pro Jack Andrews till I got so as I
could beat him pretty near every time we played and now he wont
play with me no more, he is not a very good player for a pro but
they claim he is a good teacher. Personly I think golf teachers is
a joke tho I am glad people is suckers enough to fall for it as I expect
to make my liveing that way. We have got a member Mr
Dunham who must of took 500 lessons in the past 3 yrs and when
he starts to shoot he trys to remember all the junk Andrews has
learned him and he gets dizzy and they is no telling where the ball
will go and about the safest place to stand when he is shooting is
between he and the hole.</p>

<p>I dont beleive the club pays Andrews much salery but of course
he makes pretty fair money giveing lessons but his best graft is a
3 some which he plays 2 and 3 times a wk with Mr Perdue and Mr
Lewis and he gives Mr Lewis a stroke a hole and they genally break
some wheres near even but Mr Perdue made a 83 one time so he
thinks that is his game so he insists on playing Jack even, well they
always play for $5.00 a hole and Andrews makes $20.00 to $30.00
per round and if he wanted to cut loose and play his best he could
make $50.00 to $60.00 per round but a couple of wallops like that
and Mr Perdue might get cured so Jack figures a small stedy income
is safer.</p>

<p>I have got a pal name Joe Bean and we pal around together as
he is about my age and he says some comical things and some times
will wisper some thing comical to me wile we are cadding and it is
all I can do to help from laughing out loud, that is one of the first
things a caddy has got to learn is never laugh out loud only when
a member makes a joke. How ever on the days when theys ladies
on the course I dont get a chance to caddy with Joe because for some
reason another the woman folks dont like Joe to caddy for them
wile on the other hand they are always after me tho I am no Othello
for looks or do I seek their flavors, in fact it is just the opp and I try
to keep in the back ground when the fair sex appears on the seen as
cadding for ladies means you will get just so much money and no
more as theys no chance of them loosning up. As Joe says the rule
against tipping is the only rule the woman folks keeps.</p>

<p>Theys one lady how ever who I like to caddy for as she looks like
Lillian Gish and it is a pleasure to just look at her and I would caddy
for her for nothing tho it is hard to keep your eye on the ball when
you are cadding for this lady, her name is Mrs Doane.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Sat. Apr. 15.</span></p>

<p>This was a long day and am pretty well wore out but must not
get behind in my writeing practice. I and Joe carried all day for
Mr Thomas and Mr Blake. Mr Thomas is the vice president of one
of the big banks down town and he always slips you a $1.00 extra
per round but beleive me you earn it cadding for Mr Thomas, there
is just 16 clubs in his bag includeing 5 wood clubs tho he has not
used the wood in 3 yrs but says he has got to have them along in
case his irons goes wrong on him. I dont know how bad his irons
will have to get before he will think they have went wrong on him
but personly if I made some of the tee shots he made today I would
certainly considder some kind of a change of weppons.</p>

<p>Mr Thomas is one of the kind of players that when it has took
him more than 6 shots to get on the green he will turn to you and
say how many have I had caddy and then you are suppose to pretend
like you was thinking a minute and then say 4, then he will
say to the man he is playing with well I did not know if I had shot
4 or 5 but the caddy says it is 4. You see in this way it is not him
that is cheating but the caddy but he makes it up to the caddy
afterwards with a $1.00 tip.</p>

<p>Mr Blake gives Mr Thomas a stroke a hole and they play a $10.00
nassua and niether one of them wins much money from the other
one but even if they did why $10.00 is chickens food to men like
they. But the way they crab and squak about different things you
would think their last $1.00 was at stake. Mr Thomas started out
this A. M. with a 8 and a 7 and of course that spoilt the day for him
and me to. Theys lots of men that if they dont make a good score
on the first 2 holes they will founder all the rest of the way around
and raze H with their caddy and if I was laying out a golf course
I would make the first 2 holes so darn easy that you could not help
from getting a 4 or better on them and in that way everybody would
start off good natured and it would be a few holes at lease before
they begun to turn sour.</p>

<p>Mr Thomas was beat both in the A. M. and P. M. in spite of my
help as Mr Blake is a pretty fair counter himself and I heard him
say he got a 88 in the <span class='sc'>p. m.</span> which is about a 94 but any way it was
good enough to win. Mr Blakes regular game is about a 90 takeing
his own figures and he is one of these cocky guys that takes his own
game serious and snears at men that cant break 100 and if you was
to ask him if he had ever been over 100 himself he would say not
since the first yr he begun to play. Well I have watched a lot of
those guys like he and I will tell you how they keep from going over
100 namely by doing just what he done this A. M. when he come to
the 13th hole. Well he missed his tee shot and dubbed along and
finely he got in a trap on his 4th shot and I seen him take 6 wallops
in the trap and when he had took the 6th one his ball was worse off
then when he started so he picked it up and marked a X down on
his score card. Well if he had of played out the hole why the best
he could of got was a 11 by holeing his next niblick shot but he
would of probly got about a 20 which would of made him around
108 as he admitted takeing a 88 for the other 17 holes. But I bet
if you was to ask him what score he had made he would say O I was
terrible and I picked up on one hole but if I had of played them all
out I guess I would of had about a 92.</p>

<p>These is the kind of men that laughs themselfs horse when they
hear of some dub takeing 10 strokes for a hole but if they was made
to play out every hole and mark down their real score their card
would be decorated with many a big casino.</p>

<p>Well as I say I had a hard day and was pretty sore along towards
the finish but still I had to laugh at Joe Bean on the 15th hole which
is a par 3 and you can get there with a fair drive and personly I am
genally hole high with a midiron, but Mr Thomas topped his tee
shot and dubbed a couple with his mashie and was still quiet a ways
off the green and he stood studing the situation a minute and said
to Mr Blake well I wonder what I better take here. So Joe Bean
was standing by me and he said under his breath take my advice
and quit you old rascal.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Mon. Apr. 17.</span></p>

<p>Yesterday was Sun and I was to wore out last night to write as
I cadded 45 holes. I cadded for Mr Colby in the A. M. and Mr
Langley in the P. M. Mr Thomas thinks golf is wrong on the sabath
tho as Joe Bean says it is wrong any day the way he plays it.</p>

<p>This A. M. they was nobody on the course and I played 18 holes
by myself and had a 5 for a 76 on the 18th hole but the wind got a
hold of my drive and it went out of bounds. This P. M. they was
3 of us had a game of rummy started but Miss Rennie and Mrs
Thomas come out to play and asked for me to caddy for them, they
are both terrible.</p>

<p>Mrs Thomas is Mr Thomas wife and she is big and fat and shakes
like jell and she always says she plays golf just to make her skinny
and she dont care how rotten she plays as long as she is getting the
exercise, well maybe so but when we find her ball in a bad lie she
aint never sure it is hers till she picks it up and smells it and when
she puts it back beleive me she don’t cram it down no gopher hole.</p>

<p>Miss Rennie is a good looker and young and they say she is engaged
to Chas Crane, he is one of our members and is the best
player in the club and dont cheat hardly at all and he has got a
job in the bank where Mr Thomas is the vice president. Well I
have cadded for Miss Rennie when she was playing with Mr Crane
and I have cadded for her when she was playing alone or with another
lady and I often think if Mr Crane could hear her talk when
he was not around he would not be so stuck on her. You would be
surprised at some of the words that falls from those fare lips.</p>

<p>Well the 2 ladies played for 2 bits a hole and Miss Rennie was
haveing a terrible time wile Mrs Thomas was shot with luck on the
greens and sunk 3 or 4 putts that was murder. Well Miss Rennie
used some expressions which was best not repeated but towards the
last the luck changed around and it was Miss Rennie that was sinking
the long ones and when they got to the 18th tee Mrs Thomas
was only 1 up.</p>

<p>Well we had started pretty late and when we left the 17th green
Miss Rennie made the remark that we would have to hurry to get
the last hole played, well it was her honor and she got the best drive
she made all day about 120 yds down the fair way. Well Mrs
Thomas got nervous and looked up and missed her ball a ft and
then done the same thing right over and when she finely hit it she
only knocked it about 20 yds and this made her lay 3. Well her
4th went wild and lit over in the rough in the apple trees. It was
a cinch Miss Rennie would win the hole unless she dropped dead.</p>

<p>Well we all went over to hunt for Mrs Thomas ball but we would
of been lucky to find it even in day light but now you could not
hardly see under the trees, so Miss Rennie said drop another ball
and we will not count no penalty. Well it is some job any time to
make a woman give up hunting for a lost ball and all the more so
when it is going to cost her 2 bits to play the hole out so there we
stayed for at lease 10 minutes till it was so dark we could not see
each other let alone a lost ball and finely Mrs Thomas said well it
looks like we could not finish, how do we stand? Just like she did
not know how they stood.</p>

<p>You had me one down up to this hole said Miss Rennie.</p>

<p>Well that is finishing pretty close said Mrs Thomas.</p>

<p>I will have to give Miss Rennie credit that what ever word she
thought of for this occasion she did not say it out loud but when
she was paying me she said I might of give you a quarter tip only
I have to give Mrs Thomas a quarter she dont deserve so you dont
get it.</p>

<p>Fat chance I would of had any way.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Thurs. Apr. 20.</span></p>

<p>Well we been haveing some more bad weather but today the
weather was all right but that was the only thing that was all right.
This P. M. I cadded double for Mr Thomas and Chas Crane the
club champion who is stuck on Miss Rennie. It was a 4 some with
he and Mr Thomas against Mr Blake and Jack Andrews the pro,
they was only playing best ball so it was really just a match between
Mr Crane and Jack Andrews and Mr Crane win by 1 up.
Joe Bean cadded for Jack and Mr Blake. Mr Thomas was terrible
and I put in a swell P. M. lugging that heavy bag of his besides
Mr Cranes bag.</p>

<p>Mr Thomas did not go off of the course as much as usual but he
kept hitting behind the ball and he run me ragged replaceing his
divots but still I had to laugh when we was playing the 4th hole
which you have to drive over a ravine and every time Mr Thomas
misses his tee shot on this hole why he makes a squak about the
ravine and says it ought not to be there and etc.</p>

<p>Today he had a terrible time getting over it and afterwards he
said to Jack Andrews this is a joke hole and ought to be changed.
So Joe Bean wispered to me that if Mr Thomas kept on playing like
he was the whole course would be changed.</p>

<p>Then a little wile later when we come to the long 9th hole Mr
Thomas got a fair tee shot but then he whiffed twice missing the
ball by a ft and the 3d time he hit it but it only went a little ways
and Joe Bean said that is 3 trys and no gain, he will have to punt.</p>

<p>But I must write down about my tough luck, well we finely got
through the 18 holes and Mr Thomas reached down in his pocket
for the money to pay me and he genally pays for Mr Crane to when
they play together as Mr Crane is just a employ in the bank and
dont have much money but this time all Mr Thomas had was a
$20.00 bill so he said to Mr Crane I guess you will have to pay the
boy Charley so Charley dug down and got the money to pay me
and he paid just what it was and not a dime over, where if Mr
Thomas had of had the change I would of got a $1.00 extra at lease
and maybe I was not sore and Joe Bean to because of course Andrews
never gives you nothing and Mr Blake dont tip his caddy
unless he wins.</p>

<p>They are a fine bunch of tight wads said Joe and I said well Crane
is all right only he just has not got no money.</p>

<p>He aint all right no more than the rest of them said Joe.</p>

<p>Well at lease he dont cheat on his score I said.</p>

<p>And you know why that is said Joe, neither does Jack Andrews
cheat on his score but that is because they play to good. Players
like Crane and Andrews that goes around in 80 or better cant cheat
on their score because they make the most of the holes in around
4 strokes and the 4 strokes includes their tee shot and a couple of
putts which everybody is right there to watch them when they
make them and count them right along with them. So if they make
a 4 and claim a 3 why people would just laugh in their face and say
how did the ball get from the fair way on to the green, did it fly? But
the boys that takes 7 and 8 strokes to a hole can shave their score
and you know they are shaveing it but you have to let them get
away with it because you cant prove nothing. But that is one of
the penaltys for being a good player, you cant cheat.</p>

<p>To hear Joe tell it pretty near everybody are born crooks, well
maybe he is right.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Wed. Apr. 26.</span></p>

<p>Today Mrs Doane was out for the first time this yr and asked
for me to caddy for her and you bet I was on the job. Well how are
you Dick she said, she always calls me by name. She asked me
what had I been doing all winter and was I glad to see her and etc.</p>

<p>She said she had been down south all winter and played golf
pretty near every day and would I watch her and notice how much
she had improved.</p>

<p>Well to tell the truth she was no better then last yr and wont
never be no better and I guess she is just to pretty to be a golf
player but of course when she asked me did I think her game was
improved I had to reply yes indeed as I would not hurt her feelings
and she laughed like my reply pleased her. She played with Mr
and Mrs Carter and I carried the 2 ladies bags wile Joe Bean cadded
for Mr Carter. Mrs Carter is a ugly dame with things on her face
and it must make Mr Carter feel sore when he looks at Mrs Doane
to think he married Mrs Carter but I suppose they could not all
marry the same one and besides Mrs Doane would not be a sucker
enough to marry a man like he who drinks all the time and is pretty
near always stood, tho Mr Doane who she did marry aint such a H
of a man himself tho dirty with money.</p>

<p>They all gave me the laugh on the 3d hole when Mrs Doane was
makeing her 2d shot and the ball was in the fair way but laid kind
of bad and she just ticked it and then she asked me if winter rules
was in force and I said yes so we teed her ball up so as she could
get a good shot at it and they gave me the laugh for saying winter
rules was in force.</p>

<p>You have got the caddys bribed Mr Carter said to her.</p>

<p>But she just smiled and put her hand on my sholder and said
Dick is my pal. That is enough of a bribe to just have her touch
you and I would caddy all day for her and never ask for a cent only
to have her smile at me and call me her pal.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Sat. Apr. 29.</span></p>

<p>Today they had the first club tournament of the yr and they
have a monthly tournament every month and today was the first
one, it is a handicap tournament and everybody plays in it and they
have prizes for low net score and low gross score and etc. I cadded
for Mr Thomas today and will tell what happened.</p>

<p>They played a 4 some and besides Mr Thomas we had Mr Blake
and Mr Carter and Mr Dunham. Mr Dunham is the worst man
player in the club and the other men would not play with him a
specialy on a Saturday only him and Mr Blake is partners together
in business. Mr Dunham has got the highest handicap in the club
which is 50 but it would have to be 150 for him to win a prize. Mr
Blake and Mr Carter has got a handicap of about 15 a piece I think
and Mr Thomas is 30, the first prize for the low net score for the day
was a dozen golf balls and the second low score a ½ dozen golf balls
and etc.</p>

<p>Well we had a great battle and Mr Colby ought to been along to
write it up or some good writer. Mr Carter and Mr Dunham played
partners against Mr Thomas and Mr Blake which ment that Mr
Carter was playing Thomas and Blakes best ball, well Mr Dunham
took the honor and the first ball he hit went strate off to the right
and over the fence outside of the grounds, well he done the same
thing 3 times. Well when he finely did hit one in the course why
Mr Carter said why not let us not count them 3 first shots of Mr
Dunham as they was just practice. Like H we wont count them
said Mr Thomas we must count every shot and keep our scores correct
for the tournament.</p>

<p>All right said Mr Carter.</p>

<p>Well we got down to the green and Mr Dunham had about 11
and Mr Carter sunk a long putt for a par 5, Mr Blake all ready had
5 strokes and so did Mr Thomas and when Mr Carter sunk his putt
why Mr Thomas picked his ball up and said Carter wins the hole
and I and Blake will take 6s. Like H you will said Mr Carter, this
is a tournament and we must play every hole out and keep our
scores correct. So Mr Dunham putted and went down in 13 and
Mr Blake got a 6 and Mr Thomas missed 2 easy putts and took a
8 and maybe he was not boiling.</p>

<p>Well it was still their honor and Mr Dunham had one of his dizzy
spells on the 2d tee and he missed the ball twice before he hit it and
then Mr Carter drove the green which is only a midiron shot and
then Mr Thomas stepped up and missed the ball just like Mr Dunham.
He was wild and yelled at Mr Dunham no man could play
golf playing with a man like you, you would spoil anybodys game.</p>

<p>Your game was all ready spoiled said Mr Dunham, it turned sour
on the 1st green.</p>

<p>You would turn anybody sour said Mr Thomas.</p>

<p>Well Mr Thomas finely took a 8 for the hole which is a par 3 and
it certainly looked bad for him winning a prize when he started out
with 2 8s, and he and Mr Dunham had another terrible time on
No 3 and wile they was messing things up a 2 some come up behind
us and hollared fore and we left them go through tho it was Mr
Clayton and Mr Joyce and as Joe Bean said they was probly dissapointed
when we left them go through as they are the kind that
feels like the day is lost if they cant write to some committee and
preffer charges.</p>

<p>Well Mr Thomas got a 7 on the 3d and he said well it is no wonder
I am off of my game today as I was up ½ the night with my
teeth.</p>

<p>Well said Mr Carter if I had your money why on the night before
a big tournament like this I would hire somebody else to set up
with my teeth.</p>

<p>Well I wished I could remember all that was said and done but
any way Mr Thomas kept getting sore and sore and we got to the
7th tee and he had not made a decent tee shot all day so Mr Blake
said to him why dont you try the wood as you cant do no worse?</p>

<p>By Geo I beleive I will said Mr Thomas and took his driver out
of the bag which he had not used it for 3 yrs.</p>

<p>Well he swang and zowie away went the ball pretty near 8 inchs
distants wile the head of the club broke off clean and saled 50 yds
down the course. Well I have got a hold on myself so as I dont
never laugh out loud and I beleive the other men was scarred to
laugh or he would of killed them so we all stood there in silents
waiting for what would happen.</p>

<p>Well without saying a word he come to where I was standing and
took his other 4 wood clubs out of the bag and took them to a tree
which stands a little ways from the tee box and one by one he swang
them with all his strength against the trunk of the tree and smashed
them to H and gone, all right gentlemen that is over he said.</p>

<p>Well to cut it short Mr Thomas score for the first 9 was a even 60
and then we started out on the 2d 9 and you would not think it was
the same man playing, on the first 3 holes he made 2 4s and a 5 and
beat Mr Carter even and followed up with a 6 and a 5 and that is
how he kept going up to the 17th hole.</p>

<p>What has got in to you Thomas said Mr Carter.</p>

<p>Nothing said Mr Thomas only I broke my hoodoo when I broke
them 5 wood clubs.</p>

<p>Yes I said to myself and if you had broke them 5 wood clubs 3 yrs
ago I would not of broke my back lugging them around.</p>

<p>Well we come to the 18th tee and Mr Thomas had a 39 which
give him a 99 for 17 holes, well everybody drove off and as we was
following along why Mr Klabor come walking down the course
from the club house on his way to the 17th green to join some friends
and Mr Thomas asked him what had he made and he said he had
turned in a 93 but his handicap is only 12 so that give him a 81.</p>

<p>That wont get me no wheres he said as Charley Crane made a 75.</p>

<p>Well said Mr Thomas I can tie Crane for low net if I get a 6 on
this hole.</p>

<p>Well it come his turn to make his 2d and zowie he hit the ball
pretty good but they was a hook on it and away she went in to the
woods on the left, the ball laid in behind a tree so as they was only
one thing to do and that was waste a shot getting it back on the
fair so that is what Mr Thomas done and it took him 2 more to reach
the green.</p>

<p>How many have you had Thomas said Mr Carter when we was
all on the green.</p>

<p>Let me see said Mr Thomas and then turned to me, how many
have I had caddy?</p>

<p>I dont know I said.</p>

<p>Well it is either 4 or 5 said Mr Thomas.</p>

<p>I think it is 5 said Mr Carter.</p>

<p>I think it is 4 said Mr Thomas and turned to me again and said
how many have I had caddy?</p>

<p>So I said 4.</p>

<p>Well said Mr Thomas personly I was not sure myself but my
caddy says 4 and I guess he is right.</p>

<p>Well the other men looked at each other and I and Joe Bean
looked at each other but Mr Thomas went ahead and putted and
was down in 2 putts.</p>

<p>Well he said I certainly come to life on them last 9 holes.</p>

<p>So he turned in his score as 105 and with his handicap of 30 why
that give him a net of 75 which was the same as Mr Crane so instead
of Mr Crane getting 1 dozen golf balls and Mr Thomas getting
½ a dozen golf balls why they will split the 1st and 2d prize
makeing 9 golf balls a piece.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Tues. May 2.</span></p>

<p>This was the first ladies day of the season and even Joe Bean had
to carry for the fair sex. We cadded for a 4 some which was Miss
Rennie and Mrs Thomas against Mrs Doane and Mrs Carter. I
guess if they had of kept their score right the total for the 4 of them
would of ran well over a 1000.</p>

<p>Our course has a great many trees and they seemed to have a
traction for our 4 ladies today and we was in amongst the trees more
then we was on the fair way.</p>

<p>Well said Joe Bean theys one thing about cadding for these dames,
it keeps you out of the hot sun.</p>

<p>And another time he said he felt like a boy scout studing wood
craft.</p>

<p>These dames is always up against a stump he said.</p>

<p>And another time he said that it was not fair to charge these
dames regular ladies dues in the club as they hardly ever used the
course.</p>

<p>Well it seems like they was a party in the village last night and
of course the ladies was talking about it and Mrs Doane said what
a lovely dress Miss Rennie wore to the party and Miss Rennie said
she did not care for the dress herself.</p>

<p>Well said Mrs Doane if you want to get rid of it just hand it over
to me.</p>

<p>I wont give it to you said Miss Rennie but I will sell it to you at
½ what it cost me and it was a bargain at that as it only cost me
a $100.00 and I will sell it to you for $50.00.</p>

<p>I have not got $50.00 just now to spend said Mrs Doane and besides
I dont know would it fit me.</p>

<p>Sure it would fit you said Miss Rennie, you and I are exactly the
same size and figure, I tell you what I will do with you I will play
you golf for it and if you beat me you can have the gown for nothing
and if I beat you why you will give me $50.00 for it.</p>

<p>All right but if I loose you may have to wait for your money said
Mrs Doane.</p>

<p>So this was on the 4th hole and they started from there to play
for the dress and they was both terrible and worse then usual on
acct of being nervous as this was the biggest stakes they had either
of them ever played for tho the Doanes has got a bbl of money and
$50.00 is chickens food.</p>

<p>Well we was on the 16th hole and Mrs Doane was 1 up and Miss
Rennie sliced her tee shot off in the rough and Mrs Doane landed
in some rough over on the left so they was clear across the course
from each other. Well I and Mrs Doane went over to her ball and
as luck would have it it had come to rest in a kind of a groove where
a good player could not hardly make a good shot of it let alone Mrs
Doane. Well Mrs Thomas was out in the middle of the course for
once in her life and the other 2 ladies was over on the right side and
Joe Bean with them so they was nobody near Mrs Doane and I.</p>

<p>Do I have to play it from there she said. I guess you do was my
reply.</p>

<p>Why Dick have you went back on me she said and give me one
of her looks.</p>

<p>Well I looked to see if the others was looking and then I kind of
give the ball a shove with my toe and it come out of the groove and
laid where she could get a swipe at it.</p>

<p>This was the 16th hole and Mrs Doane win it by 11 strokes to 10
and that made her 2 up and 2 to go. Miss Rennie win the 17th but
they both took a 10 for the 18th and that give Mrs Doane the match.</p>

<p>Well I wont never have a chance to see her in Miss Rennies dress
but if I did I aint sure that I would like it on her.</p>

</div>

<div class='blockquote100percent'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'><span class='it'>Fri. May 5.</span></p>

<p>Well I never thought we would have so much excitement in the
club and so much to write down in my diary but I guess I better
get busy writeing it down as here it is Friday and it was Wed. A. M.
when the excitement broke loose and I was getting ready to play
around when Harry Lear the caddy master come running out with
the paper in his hand and showed it to me on the first page.</p>

<p>It told how Chas Crane our club champion had went south with
$8000 which he had stole out of Mr Thomas bank and a swell looking
dame that was a stenographer in the bank had elloped with him
and they had her picture in the paper and I will say she is a pip but
who would of thought a nice quiet young man like Mr Crane was
going to prove himself a gay Romeo and a specialy as he was engaged
to Miss Rennie tho she now says she broke their engagement
a month ago but any way the whole affair has certainly give everybody
something to talk about and one of the caddys Lou Crowell
busted Fat Brunner in the nose because Fat claimed to of been the
last one that cadded for Crane. Lou was really the last one and
cadded for him last Sunday which was the last time Crane was at
the club.</p>

<p>Well everybody was thinking how sore Mr Thomas would be and
they would better not mention the affair around him and etc. but
who should show up to play yesterday but Mr Thomas himself and
he played with Mr Blake and all they talked about the whole P. M.
was Crane and what he had pulled.</p>

<p>Well Thomas said Mr Blake I am curious to know if the thing
come as a suprise to you or if you ever had a hunch that he was
libel to do a thing like this.</p>

<p>Well Blake said Mr Thomas I will admit that the whole thing
come as a complete suprise to me as Crane was all most like my son
you might say and I was going to see that he got along all right and
that is what makes me sore is not only that he has proved himself
dishonest but that he could be such a sucker as to give up a bright
future for a sum of money like $8000 and a doll face girl that cant
be no good or she would not of let him do it. When you think how
young he was and the carreer he might of had why it certainly seems
like he sold his soul pretty cheap.</p>

<p>That is what Mr Thomas had to say or at lease part of it as I
cant remember a ½ of all he said but any way this P. M. I cadded
for Mrs Thomas and Mrs Doane and that is all they talked about
to, and Mrs Thomas talked along the same lines like her husband
and said she had always thought Crane was to smart a young man
to pull a thing like that and ruin his whole future.</p>

<p>He was geting $4000 a yr said Mrs Thomas and everybody liked
him and said he was bound to get ahead so that is what makes it
such a silly thing for him to of done, sell his soul for $8000 and a
pretty face.</p>

<p>Yes indeed said Mrs Doane.</p>

<p>Well all the time I was listening to Mr Thomas and Mr Blake
and Mrs Thomas and Mrs Doane why I was thinking about something
which I wanted to say to them but it would of ment me looseing
my job so I kept it to myself but I sprung it on my pal Joe Bean
on the way home tonight.</p>

<p>Joe I said what do these people mean when they talk about Crane
selling his soul?</p>

<p>Why you know what they mean said Joe, they mean that a person
that does something dishonest for a bunch of money or a gal or any
kind of a reward why the person that does it is selling his soul.</p>

<p>All right I said and it dont make no differents does it if the reward
is big or little?</p>

<p>Why no said Joe only the bigger it is the less of a sucker the person
is that goes after it.</p>

<p>Well I said here is Mr Thomas who is vice president of a big bank
and worth a bbl of money and it is just a few days ago when he lied
about his golf score in order so as he would win 9 golf balls instead
of a ½ a dozen.</p>

<p>Sure said Joe.</p>

<p>And how about his wife Mrs Thomas I said, who plays for 2 bits
a hole and when her ball dont lie good why she picks it up and pretends
to look at it to see if it is hers and then puts it back in a good
lie where she can sock it.</p>

<p>And how about my friend Mrs Doane that made me move her
ball out of a rut to help her beat Miss Rennie out of a party dress.</p>

<p>Well said Joe what of it?</p>

<p>Well I said it seems to me like these people have got a lot of nerve
to pan Mr Crane and call him a sucker for doing what he done, it
seems to me like $8000 and a swell dame is a pretty fair reward
compared with what some of these other people sells their soul for,
and I would like to tell them about it.</p>

<p>Well said Joe go ahead and tell them but maybe they will tell
you something right back.</p>

<p>What will they tell me?</p>

<p>Well said Joe they might tell you this, that when Mr Thomas
asks you how many shots he has had and you say 4 when you know
he has had 5, why you are selling your soul for a $1.00 tip. And
when you move Mrs Doanes ball out of a rut and give it a good lie,
what are you selling your soul for? Just a smile.</p>

<p>O keep your mouth shut I said to him.</p>

<p>I am going to said Joe and would advice you to do the same.</p>