<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Ball-a-Hole</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="ball-a-hole" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ball-a-Hole</h2>

<p>Riverside&#39;s only got a nine-hole course, but they&#39;ve
bought some more land and by the end of this summer
they&#39;ll have eighteen holes. They&#39;re planning a
new clubhouse too. You know the other one caught fire
and burnt down. This one&#39;s just supposed to be temporary.
When they get the new course done and the clubhouse
built they expect to take in about a hundred more members;
and then, of course, they&#39;ll have to have some more
of us kids.</p>
<p>By that time, though, I hope I&#39;ll be doing something
else. I wouldn&#39;t keep a-hold of this job now, only it gives
me a chance to practice golf when there&#39;s nobody on the
course. I and Jake-he&#39;s the second oldest kid that&#39;s
caddying here-him and I come out early Saturday mornings,
and sometimes afternoons during the week when the
men and women aren&#39;t playing, and we go round together,
for a nickel a hole sometimes. I&#39;m a little better than him
and I have to give him three strokes on the nine, and we
break about even that way. I&#39;ve made the nine holes once
in forty-three already, and I&#39;m only sixteen. Most generally
I get round in about forty-eight or forty-nine. Jake&#39;ll
average round fifty or fifty-one. Mac, the pro., he&#39;s an old
crab. He wouldn&#39;t try to learn us nothing. Besides, I
think a fella&#39;s better off learning by himself. Francis
Ouimet started as a caddy and I guess nobody ever showed
him anything. But, besides getting the chance to practice,
I and Jake&#39;s considered the best kids they got, and we
make pretty good money-twice as much as the younger
kids get. The regular price is two bits for every nine holes,
but fellas like Mr. Joyce and Mr. Davis and them, they
always slip us fifteen cents extra and sometimes as high as
thirty or forty. That&#39;s outside of the two bits.</p>
<p>There&#39;s a rule in the club that nobody can call up ahead
of time and engage their caddy. They&#39;re all supposed to
take whoever they get when they get up here. We&#39;re all
supposed to stick round the shop, and when somebody&#39;s
ready to play Mac tells who shall caddy for them. But I
and Jake work a kind of a system. When we see somebody
walking to the first tee that takes good care of us, we get
outside of the shop, where the guys can see us; and then
they usually holler to Mac to send them Jake and I. And
when some old tightwad or some crab shows up, Mac can&#39;t
find us with a search warrant. We&#39;re gone-that&#39;s all.</p>
<p>When we make the best clean-up is when Mr. Joyce and
Mr. Davis and Mr. McNally and Mr. Harper play together.
They never shoot for less&#39;n a dollar a hole, and sometimes
it&#39;s as high as five bucks. And they&#39;re all fellas that likes to
win; but when they get beat it ain&#39;t never our fault, like
with some of the crabs. And the fellas that cop most of the
dough don&#39;t never forget to remember Jake and I. Mr.
Joyce win thirty dollars one day this spring, and he give I
and Jake a five-spot to split between us. Believe me,
when there&#39;s any balls found laying loose round the course
they belong to Mr. Joyce!
And I&#39;ve gone out in the river
over my knees more&#39;n once,
chasing a new ball for him,
when he happened to hook
one on the seventh or eighth
hole.</p>
<p>The other kids always are
trying to fix it so&#39;s they can
go round with him and the
rest of the live ones, and I
and Jake sometimes feel like
we were hogging it. But it
ain&#39;t our fault, is it, if they&#39;d
rather have us and ask Mac
to let them? Fellas that does
as much for the club as them,
they&#39;ve got a right to have
the caddies they like.</p>
<p>Well, if they were all Mr.
Joyces nobody&#39;d have a kick
coming. But, believe me,
there&#39;s a few guys in the club
that&#39;s so tight you could play
on them with a drumstick!
I&#39;ve been round with some
of them when I couldn&#39;t get
out of it, and it&#39;s like pulling
teeth to get them to come
acrost with the regular pay
they&#39;re supposed to give us.
There was one that used to
come out from town last year,
and he never had nothing
less&#39;n a twenty-dollar bill
when it was time to settle up
with his caddy. The first
time he sprung that on me I
said I couldn&#39;t change it but
the man in the clubhouse could. So this guy said
he&#39;d go in himself and get it changed. So he went
in and stalled round half an hour, hoping I&#39;d go
home. I stuck, but it didn&#39;t get me nothing. He was studying
astronomy when he came out. And the next time I seen
him he&#39;d forgot all about it.</p>
<p>When I went round with him again and he hauled out his
twenty, I said I thought I could break it, and before he
could get it back in his jeans I copped it out of his hand
and ran in the clubhouse.</p>
<p>I got it changed into a ten and a five and five ones. I
gave him back nineteen dollars.</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s half a buck for eighteen holes,&quot; I said. &quot;There was
eighteen holes to-day and eighteen last time, so it&#39;s a dollar
altogether.&quot; And by the time he
begun to argue I was on the way to the
village.</p>
<p>He never took me after that, but I
managed not to shed tears over it.</p>
<p>Then there&#39;s the fellas that everything
you do for them is wrong and
spoils their game. If they&#39;ve got a five-foot
putt and you take the flag out,
and they miss the putt by four or five feet,
it&#39;s &quot;Why in hell didn&#39;t you leave the flag
alone?&quot; And if they&#39;ve got a mashie shot
and you give them their mashie and they
make a flivver of it, it&#39;s &quot;Why didn&#39;t you
give me my niblick, like I ast you to?&quot;
And if you stand over in the rough on the
right side of the fairway when they&#39;re
driving, if they dub their drive it&#39;s because
you weren&#39;t over on the left side.</p>
<p>And then there&#39;s the guys that can&#39;t
remember how many strokes they&#39;ve
had, and they ask you. If you tell them
the truth they&#39;re as sore
as a boil. What you&#39;re
supposed to do is lie a stroke. That saves
them the trouble and disgrace of doing it
themselves. All us kids were in the shop one
week day, waiting for somebody
to show, and we were talking things
over; and Davy Schultz was crabbing
because he never got to go
round with one of the regular fellas.
He said he&#39;d drop dead if anybody
ever slipped him more&#39;n a dime
extra. &quot;You don&#39;t go after them
right,&quot; I said to him. &quot;If you handle
them the proper way
they&#39;ll all come acrost.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You ain&#39;t the only
wise guy in the world,&quot;
he said to me. &quot;I can
handle them just as
good as you, only I
don&#39;t get the ones that
can be handled. Mac
don&#39;t never send me
out with anybody but
hard-boiled eggs.&quot;</p>
<p>So I told him:</p>
<p>&quot;I never saw the
man yet that I
couldn&#39;t make him
loosen up.&quot;</p>
<p>So he said: &quot;Well,
there&#39;s a pair of them
right here in this club that if
you can squeeze a dime out of
either of them on the side, I&#39;ll
give you all I make in a week.&quot;</p>
<p>So I ast him who they
were. He said it was Mr.
Perkins and Mr. Conklin.
Mr. Perkins joined the club
last fall and Mr. Conklin just
came in this last spring already.
He&#39;s the kind that
wants all the barbers to starve to death. Jake says he
wears all that stuff on his chin to keep his Adam&#39;s apple
from insect pests and frostbites. He&#39;s director of two
or three banks down town, and every time the schoolteachers
can&#39;t think of nothing else to talk about, they tell
you to always be straight and honest and work hard, and
you&#39;ll turn out a second Mr. Conklin. Because he did it all
himself. He didn&#39;t even have his whiskers to start with.
Mr. Perkins is a warder in one of the churches and gives
talks to the young men&#39;s meetings every other Friday
night. He don&#39;t play golf on Sunday, and he don&#39;t play
golf on Monday or Saturday on account of those two days
being so close to Sunday. Jake says he don&#39;t play golf on
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday, either. But,
anyway, he&#39;s got as much dough as all of Mr. Conklin&#39;s
banks, pretty near, and he don&#39;t have to do nothing.</p>
<p>Well, up to the time Davy was telling his troubles I or
Jake had never caddied for either one of these birds. We
probably never would of, only we wanted
to show Davy how good we were.</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;re air-tight,&quot; he said to us.
&quot;You&#39;d stand just as much of a chance
of getting three hundred yards out
of a spoon.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do they go round in?&quot;
I ast him.</p>
<p>&quot;Neither one of them ever plays
more&#39;n the nine holes,&quot; Davy told
us; &quot;and if you add nine or ten
strokes to the score they got,
you&#39;ll be closer to the right score
than they are. Mr. Conklin&#39;s
speed&#39;s about sixty-three, and Mr.
Perkins made a fifty-nine once. It
was even fifty the way he counted.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;So they underestimate, do
they?&quot; I ast him.</p>
<p>&quot;Do they!&quot; Dave said. &quot;Why, if Chick Evans had
their system he could play this course four times in thirty-six!
He&#39;d hole out from every tee. All he&#39;d need&#39;d be one
club and a good, sharp pencil.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Do they ever play together?&quot; I ast him.</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Davy. &quot;Mr. Perkins went round with Mr.
Adams a couple of times, but Mr. Conklin likes his solitary.&quot;</p>
<p>Well, I winked at Jake and we moseyed out together;
and I was going to tell him my idear, but he beat me to it.</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll get a bet with Davy,&quot; he said. &quot;We&#39;ll bet him
that I and you can squeeze real money out of the both of
them. And we can do it easy if we can get them to play
against each other.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s the whole thing,&quot; I said. &quot;You can work it
better&#39;n me. You lay for them and get them matched.
The rest of it&#39;s a set-up.&quot;</p>
<p>So the next day we brought it up again in the shop, and
Davy made us the bet. It was his week&#39;s earnings against
ours. And it was understood that
we weren&#39;t to come right out and
ask for something extra. We
weren&#39;t to do anything that was
not legitimate-begging, or anything
like that. If they tipped us,
it had to be of their own free
will, without compunction.</p>
<hr/>
<p>It was about a week afterwards
that Jake braced Mr.
Conklin. He was practicing
putts on the &quot;clock.&quot; Jake
waited till he happened to sink
a ten-footer.</p>
<p>&quot;That was great, Mr. Conklin!&quot;
Jake said to him. &quot;If you
putt like that right along, I&#39;m
thinking Mr. Perkins would have
to go some.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean?&quot; Mr.
Conklin ast him.</p>
<p>&quot;Maybe I oughtn&#39;t to of said
nothing,&quot; Jake said to him.
&quot;But I overheard Mr. Perkins
the other day telling Mac that
he&#39;d been watching you a couple
of times, and he&#39;d noticed you
had some mighty bad habits,
and he thought Mac ought to
tell you about them. And then
he said he wasn&#39;t much of a golfer
himself, but he hadn&#39;t been at it
nowhere near as long as you;
but he could trim you three up
on nine holes.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What does he go round in?&quot;
Mr. Conklin ast Jake.</p>
<p>&quot;He&#39;ll average about sixty,&quot;
Jake told him.</p>
<p>Then Mr. Conklin said:</p>
<p>&quot;If that&#39;s all the better he is,
he&#39;d have his troubles beating
me even.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Why don&#39;t you tackle him?&quot;
said Jake.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d just as lief,&quot; Mr. Conklin
said. &quot;But I ain&#39;t going to
suggest it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You don&#39;t have to,&quot; Jake
said to him. &quot;The way to do is
for you to be up here when he
is-he&#39;s here any week-day afternoon
except Mondays and Saturdays-and you could just
happen to be starting out when he is and when he saw
you were alone he&#39;d probably ask you if you didn&#39;t want
to go round with him.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin didn&#39;t say no more; and the next day Jake
went to work on Mr. Perkins.</p>
<p>&quot;Mr. Perkins,&quot; he said, &quot;I seen that approach you
made on the ninth. That was a pippin! You could give Mr.
Conklin a pretty good battle now, if that&#39;s the way you
shoot all the time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Conklin!&quot; said Mr. Perkins. &quot;I didn&#39;t know he was
very good.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know if he is or not,&quot; Jake said. &quot;But I heard
him tell Mac that he&#39;d been watching you, and he didn&#39;t
see how a man could keep on making the same mistakes
without finding out what was the matter with him. He
said somebody ought to tell you that you stood wrong and
come back too fast, and he had half a notion to tell you
about it himself, only he felt like you&#39;d think he was fresh
or something.&quot;</p>
<p>So Mr. Perkins said:</p>
<p>&quot;Well, if Conklin&#39;s such a expert, how does it come he
always plays alone?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;He&#39;d like to play with somebody,&quot; said Jake, &quot;but he
don&#39;t only get up here in the middle of the week, and you&#39;re
about the only fella on the course that ain&#39;t hooked up
with somebody else; and you always get an earlier start
than him.&quot;</p>
<p>So Mr. Perkins ast Jake what Mr. Conklin usually shot,
and Jake told him he didn&#39;t know for sure, but he thought
he was round sixty for the nine holes.</p>
<p>The following afternoon Mr. Perkins showed up about
one o&#39;clock, like always; but he didn&#39;t drive off till pretty
near two.</p>
<p>You could see he was waiting for something. Finally
he gave up and started out alone, with poor Davy carrying
his bag.</p>
<p>But on Thursday Mr. Perkins hadn&#39;t hardly more&#39;n
got into his playing clothes when Mr. Conklin&#39;s big car
showed up.</p>
<p>I said to Jake:</p>
<p>&quot;Here&#39;s where we&#39;ve got them. You go out to the tee
and help Mr. Perkins stall till Mr. Conklin&#39;s ready.&quot;</p>
<p>And I told Mac that Mr. Perkins and Mr. Conklin had
ast specially for Jake and I to go round with them.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, I&#39;m willing,&quot; Mac said. &quot;It&#39;s about time you
two cinch bugs caddied for somebody besides the spendthrifts.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll loosen them up,&quot; I said.</p>
<p>&quot;Yes,&quot; said Mac; &quot;you&#39;ve got a sweet chance! They
don&#39;t think no more of a nickel than a caddy does.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Or a pro. from Edinburgh,&quot; I said.</p>
<p>And then I grabbed Mr. Conklin&#39;s bag and went out to
where Jake and Mr. Perkins was standing.</p>
<p>&quot;Whose clubs?&quot; Mr. Perkins ast me.</p>
<p>&quot;Mr. Conklin&#39;s,&quot; I said. &quot;He&#39;ll be out in a minute.&quot;</p>
<p>Now, Mr. Perkins knew whose clubs I had, all right.
He&#39;d seen Mr. Conklin go in the clubhouse; and besides,
his and Mr. Conklin&#39;s bags looked just alike and was different
from everybody else&#39;s. You can buy a pretty fair
bag for five or six dollars. These two must of cost pretty
near a dollar and a quarter apiece, and was easily worth
more&#39;n half that much.</p>
<p>&quot;Mr. Conklin going round with you?&quot; I said to Mr.
Perkins.</p>
<p>&quot;He can if he wants to,&quot; said Mr. Perkins. &quot;I&#39;d just as
lief go round alone.&quot;</p>
<p>But he kept on waiting, and didn&#39;t even tee his ball till
Mr. Conklin showed up.</p>
<p>First thing Mr. Conklin said was to ask where Davy
was at.</p>
<p>&quot;Home sick,&quot; I told him. &quot;He got tipped pretty good
yesterday and I guess he blew himself to candy.&quot;</p>
<p>Then Mr. Perkins said:</p>
<p>&quot;Hello, Conklin! Have you got a pardner?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Mr. Conklin. &quot;I usually go it alone.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, I&#39;ll shoot and get out of your way,&quot; said Mr.
Perkins.</p>
<p>&quot;If you&#39;re alone, too, we might as well go round together,&quot;
said Mr. Conklin.</p>
<p>&quot;That suits me,&quot; said Mr. Perkins. &quot;I&#39;m not very good,
but I&#39;ll try and make it interesting.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you shoot?&quot; Mr. Conklin ast him.</p>
<p>&quot;About sixty for the nine,&quot; said Mr. Perkins.</p>
<p>&quot;I guess we&#39;re pretty near even,&quot; said Mr. Conklin.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Mr. Perkins, &quot;I suppose I&#39;ll get the worst
of it; but let&#39;s play for a ball-a-hole.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ll beat me,&quot; Mr. Conklin said; &quot;but I&#39;m willing.&quot;</p>
<p>I dug down in the pocket of the bag for a ball. There
were three of them. They all looked like they&#39;d slept in
the coal bin. One of them was
almost round. Somebody&#39;d mistook
the other two for blackberries
and bit a hunk out of
them. I gave the best one a good
scrubbing and got it so&#39;s it was
about caramel color and you
could see the name on it. It was
a Whizz: three for a dollar, and
not so cheap, at that.</p>
<p>Well, they decided Mr. Perkins
should have the honor, and
he started off with a twenty-yard
drive, right down the middle.
Mr. Conklin put his hand over
his whiskers so&#39;s Mr. Perkins
couldn&#39;t see him smile, and then
teed his Whizz. He took his
stance with his kneecaps kissing
each other and stood there wiggling
his toes and elbows till he
had all four of us nervous.
Finally he swang, and away she
went. Two hundred yards-a
hundred up and a hundred down.</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins said to him:</p>
<p>&quot;You better try it again. I
think you tee your ball too high.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin acted like he
hadn&#39;t heard him, and ast me for
his brassy. The Whizz laid about
six feet off the tee. Mr. Conklin&#39;s
knees kissed again, but he
was too sore this time to take it
slow. He whanged away the
minute he was set and sliced her
over to the right, into a mud-hole.
Well, looking for that ball
there was about like trying to
find a drop of ink in a coal mine.
Mr. Joyce or Mr. Davis wouldn&#39;t
of wasted a minute on it. But
I&#39;ll bet our search party worked
half an hour before Mr. Conklin&#39;d
give up. Then I dug out one
of the two he had left. First, I
showed it to Jake, and he said:</p>
<p>&quot;Anyway, he won&#39;t have to
slice this one. It&#39;s been done
already.&quot;</p>
<p>I handed it to Mr. Conklin
and watched close to see if he&#39;d
give himself a bad lie. He didn&#39;t.</p>
<p>&quot;Better take a mashie,&quot; said Mr. Perkins. &quot;The best
dope is to play safe and get out on the fairway.&quot;</p>
<p>So Mr. Conklin used his brassy again and pulled the best
shot he made all day, sending her down past the bunker,
just a good mashie pitch from the green.</p>
<p>Then Mr. Perkins took his brassy and in two more
shots his ball was about ten yards behind Mr. Conklin&#39;s.
If he could of only got the distance with his ball that he
did with the divots, he&#39;d of been hole-high in three.</p>
<p>Jake said to me:</p>
<p>&quot;They ought to follow my man round with a steam
roller.&quot;</p>
<p>I said:</p>
<p>&quot;He could dig up twice as much ground if he&#39;d use an
iron.&quot;</p>
<p>And Jake said:</p>
<p>&quot;He ought to go out West somewhere and drill oil wells.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins ast for his cleek and we felt sorry for the
people that live in Hong-Kong, but he topped her this
time and she rolled into the ditch. Mr. Conklin was clubby
and went to the same place with his mashie. The balls laid
about a yard apart, with Mr. Conklin&#39;s away. Now his and
Mr. Perkins&#39; didn&#39;t look no more alike than a watermelon
and a motorcycle. But when Mr. Conklin got there, and
found that his ball was about half buried in the ground,
what does he do but pick it up to see if it&#39;s his or
Mr. Perkins&#39;. And when he put it down again, he laid it
on top of a little clump of weeds. With that lie and that
distance, I could of pitched to the green with a carpet
sweeper; but Mr. Conklin, using his mashie again, was still
ten feet short yet. Mr. Perkins did pretty fair with his and
stopped about eight feet from the can.</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin ast for a putter and drove acrost the green
and ten feet off on the other side.</p>
<p>Jake whispered to me:</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s the club he ought to use off the tee.&quot;</p>
<p>He shot again and was a good yard short of the hole.
Mr. Perkins got to within half a foot and picked up his ball.</p>
<p>&quot;I guess we halved it,&quot; Mr. Conklin
said, and picked up hisn.</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins made a holler. &quot;Halved
it nothing!&quot; he said. &quot;Even if I give
you that putt you didn&#39;t make, I got
you beat a stroke, 6 and 7.&quot;</p>
<p>So Mr. Conklin said:</p>
<p>&quot;You took seven yourself. First,
there was your tee shot; that&#39;s one.
Two brassies makes three. Then you
went into the ditch; that&#39;s four. You
got on the green in five, and took two
putts.&quot;</p>
<p>So Mr. Perkins said:</p>
<p>&quot;You better figure out your own
strokes and I&#39;ll tend to mine. You got
two yards off the tee; then you sliced
into the rough with your brassy. It
took you two more to get into the ditch.
Then you was short of the green in five,
acrost the green in six, and about four
or five feet from the cup in seven. If I
concede that putt, you were down in
eight; but I don&#39;t know why I should
concede it. You might of made it and
you might not. But, anyway, I&#39;m
one up. I&#39;ll leave it to the caddies.&quot;</p>
<p>Jake spoke up: &quot;I think Mr.
Perkins won the hole.&quot;</p>
<p>So I butted in and said I thought they
halved it.</p>
<p>Then the argument begun all over. Finally
Mr. Conklin gave in and admitted
that Mr. Perkins had beat him, 6 and 7. So
long as he was beat, what was the difference
if he trimmed a stroke off both of
their scores?</p>
<p>There was no use trying to clean the ball
my man was playing with now, so I and
Jake gave them their drivers and went over
and stood near the fairway on the second,
about fifty yards from the tee. They both sliced
right in behind us.</p>
<p>&quot;They don&#39;t use any judgment,&quot; said Jake. &quot;If
they want to underestimate, they&#39;d ought to keep on
opposite sides of the course.&quot;</p>
<p>The rough where the two balls laid had been mowed
three days before and Mr. Conklin took his brassy.
He shot acrost the fairway and into the rough at the
left. Mr. Perkins used a mashie and went farther into
the rough on the right.</p>
<p>&quot;Now,&quot; I said to Jake, &quot;they&#39;re separated and can
lie their heads off.&quot;</p>
<p>And Jake said that we were sure to be called as witnesses
on this hole.</p>
<p>So I ast him to let me win it, so&#39;s to even up the
match. So he said that when we got down near the
green he&#39;d hold up as many fingers as he thought
Mr. Perkins would say he&#39;d had strokes, and then I
could fix up Mr. Conklin&#39;s to suit.</p>
<p>Well, my man missed the ball entirely once, and
the next time he dribbled it just out of the rough.
Then he shut his eyes and made a pretty good brassy
shot and got on the green with a mashie in six. I looked
over at Jake and Mr. Perkins. They were hole-high, but
still in the rough. They got out and onto the green, and
Jake held up six fingers.</p>
<p>So I said to Mr. Conklin:</p>
<p>&quot;Let&#39;s see. You&#39;ve shot five, haven&#39;t you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Let&#39;s see,&quot; he said. &quot;Yes; that&#39;s right-five.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins laid near us now, and he ast how many we&#39;d
had. Mr. Conklin told him five.</p>
<p>&quot;Alike as we lay,&quot; said Mr. Perkins.</p>
<p>They both went down in three more and agreed that the
hole was a half, 8 and 8. But on the way to the third tee
Jake told me that Mr. Perkins was six before he ever got
out of the rough, and he&#39;d figured that he wouldn&#39;t dare cut
it down more&#39;n one stroke. I saw right there that I and
Mr. Conklin were up against a tough proposition.</p>
<p>They sliced their drives again and Mr. Perkins landed in
the uncut. Mr. Conklin would of, only there wasn&#39;t enough
force to his wallop. Mr. Perkins shot three times with a
mashie and managed to get a little farther into the long
grass.</p>
<p>&quot;He&#39;s good-hearted,&quot; said Jake. &quot;He&#39;s got enough
regard for the fairway to stay off of it.&quot;</p>
<p>There isn&#39;t much to the third hole, only distance. A
good drive and a brassy and a pitch&#39;ll get you onto the
green, or pretty close to it. So I told Mr. Conklin. I said:</p>
<p>&quot;All you got to do is stay on the course. If it takes you
five to reach the green you&#39;ve still got him trimmed yet.
He won&#39;t be out of the weeds in six.&quot;</p>
<p>But Mr. Conklin, of course, didn&#39;t want to take no unfair
advantage; so, after gumming up two brassy shots, he
took a mid-iron and sliced pretty near over to the fifth
fairway. He lit where the grass was longest, and I could see
another long hunt.</p>
<p>Jake left his man and came over to us.</p>
<p>&quot;Have you lost your ball?&quot; he ast me.</p>
<p>So I said:</p>
<p>&quot;No. We&#39;re looking for mushrooms.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What kind of a ball was it?&quot; Jake ast.</p>
<p>&quot;A Black Walnut,&quot; I told him.</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins kindly consented
to join the party and we lined up
and marched back and forth all
over the property; but nothing
doing. Jake called me to one side
and said:</p>
<p>&quot;Have you looked in his
beard yet?&quot;</p>
<p>Finally Mr. Perkins got
impatient and ast Mr. Conklin
why he didn&#39;t drop another
ball. &quot;There&#39;s no sense
to losing this one,&quot; he said.
&quot;If my boy would keep his
eyes open he&#39;d know right
where it was.&quot;</p>
<p>Just then Jake stepped on
a ball. It was a Major, Number
28, and pretty near new.
Jake picked it up and ast
Mr. Conklin if it was his.
Mr. Conklin said it was.
Then Mr. Perkins said:</p>
<p>&quot;I thought you never used
anything but a Whizz.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I got this one by mistake,&quot;
said Mr. Conklin.
&quot;I ast the salesman for a
Whizz and he gave me this
one. I didn&#39;t find it out till
I got home.&quot;</p>
<p>So he tees her up on a tuft
of weeds and goes clear to
the green with a brassy.</p>
<p>Well, Mr. Perkins did
some more mowing with his
mashie, and finally gave up.</p>
<p>&quot;You can have this hole,&quot;
he said. &quot;You got a six to
my seven. We&#39;re all even.&quot;</p>
<p>Seven! Say, the way this
guy figured he must of
thought he was eating breakfast
at noon!</p>
<p>The fourth hole they call
the Railroad. It runs along
parallel with the tracks. It&#39;s
only about two hundred and
fifty yards, but a hundred
yards from the tee there&#39;s a
bunker clear acrost the
course. And there&#39;s a ditch
over to the left, just this side
of the tracks. And the
green&#39;s just short of the river
bank. The main thing to do
is clear the first bunker and
it don&#39;t make much difference
if you slice a little. But
if you hook you&#39;re liable to
go into the ditch, and that&#39;s
out of bounds.</p>
<p>Both of our men had been hitting them high off the tee
so far; but of course when they had that bunker staring
them in the face they topped their drives a little and
smashed right into it. Then they took their mashies and
lofted over to the left, into the ditch. We&#39;d had some rain
and it was pretty wet down there; so Jake and I stood on
the edge a minute, hoping they&#39;d tell us to never mind.
Fine chance! The balls were both in sight and we had to
go after them. We brought them up, along with some of
the richest soil in Illinois.</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins ast what the rules were about counting a
shot out of bounds; so Jake told him it cost you one
stroke. So Mr. Perkins said that as long as they&#39;d both
done it, what was the use of counting it at all? So they
both shot three from the edge of the fairway. They were
to the green in six and their first putt left them about ten
feet each from the can.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; Mr. Perkins said, &quot;I&#39;ve had six. You&#39;ve had
seven, haven&#39;t you?&quot;</p>
<p>I butted in before Mr. Conklin could answer.</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ve both had the same number,&quot; I said, &quot;whether
it&#39;s six or two hundred.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins gave me a sour look and putted to the left
of the hole, and about four feet away.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m down in eight,&quot; he said; and he picked up his ball.</p>
<p>I expected my man to yelp; but he&#39;d done the same
thing on the first hole, so he kept his clam closed. And his
putt, starting &#39;way over to the right, bumped into a pebble
or something, and darned if it didn&#39;t twist round and drop
in the cup!</p>
<p>&quot;There!&quot; said Mr. Conklin. &quot;I&#39;m one up.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes,&quot; said Mr. Perkins; &quot;but you got to admit it was
luck, pure and simple. The groundkeeper won that hole
for you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Mr. Conklin, &quot;you can&#39;t blame him for not
being on your side.&quot;</p>
<p>All I can remember about the fifth and sixth was that it
took us an hour to play them and Mr. Perkins only got off
of the fairway once. After that, he stayed off of it. But
my man, though he managed to keep in the course mostly,
couldn&#39;t seem to do anything to the ball, only bunt it.
Between the four of us, we decided that both holes were
halved in eights. To get that figure, I and Mr. Conklin
only cut two off each hole, and I suppose Jake and Mr.
Perkins did that well at least.</p>
<p>On the way to the seventh tee I said to Jake-I said:</p>
<p>&quot;Your fella&#39;s got to cop one of these two next holes and
the other one&#39;s got to be halved, so&#39;s we&#39;ll be all even on
the ninth. Then we&#39;ll have a chance to blackmail them.&quot;</p>
<p>Let me tell you, first, that these last three holes are
some holes. The seventh is par three and a good player
can usually make it in par. But it&#39;s gosh-awful for a wild
man! It&#39;s only a hundred and thirty yards, but it&#39;s right
along the river bank; and if you pull the ball the least
little bit, the fish get it. And to the right of the green
there&#39;s a clump of trees and a whole lot of long grass. Your
tee shot&#39;s got to be just about straight, or you&#39;re in bad.</p>
<p>Most everybody drives with an iron here, and Jake and
I handed them their cleeks. They were both scared not
to take them; but, believe me, there ain&#39;t a hole in the
world that there&#39;s any danger of either one of them over-driving it!</p>
<p>It was Mr. Conklin&#39;s honor and he fed his Major 28 to
a carp.</p>
<p>&quot;Can you get that ball, boy?&quot; he ast me.</p>
<p>&quot;Not me!&quot; I said. &quot;I&#39;m no U-boat.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, give me another,&quot; he said; and I hauled out the
one he had left, the blackest one of the Whizzes.</p>
<p>Jake whispered to me. He said:</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s the one he ought to of given the bath to.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins claimed it was his shot before Mr. Conklin
drove again. So he teed his ball and sliced into the orchard.</p>
<p>&quot;You oughtn&#39;t to use a tee for an iron,&quot; said Mr. Conklin;
and then he laid his ball on the ground and sliced to
the same place.</p>
<p>Well, we didn&#39;t have to do any fancywork to let Mr.
Perkins cop this hole. It took him only three to get out of
the woods and onto the edge of the green. And, of course,
Mr. Conklin was charged with one stroke for his fish ball
and had to get clear of the rough in two to be even with
Mr. Perkins. There was one thin thorn-apple tree in the
line between the cup and where Mr. Conklin&#39;s ball laid;
so naturally he hit it right in the middle and it bounded
back into the thickest part of the orchard. He was seven
before he ever begun to putt. His nerves were a little
shaky, and he finally went down in eleven, or only eight
over par. Mr. Perkins holed out in six-his count. They
were all even and two to go.</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll see that they halve the eighth,&quot; said Jake.</p>
<p>Now about this eighth: If the seventh&#39;s dangerous for
a dub, the eighth&#39;s a whole lot worse. It&#39;s bad enough for
the good ones. You can&#39;t make a real long drive without
going into the Grand Cañon, that lays about thirty yards
this side of the green. And on the right, all the way down,
there&#39;s a regular jungle. On the left there&#39;s the river again;
and though it ain&#39;t any closer to the fairway than it is on
the seventh hole, still there&#39;s no bushes or shrubbery to
hide it from you. You can see it perfectly plain, and that
makes you wonder whether a ball would make much of a
splash if it lit in there; and the next thing you know, you
find out for sure.</p>
<p>Our fellas got away to an even start. Mr. Perkins hooked
into the middle of the river and Mr. Conklin sliced into the
forest preserves. Mr. Perkins teed another ball, and this
time he come about ten feet from the opposite shore.
Then he made some remark that he never sprung at the
Friday-night talks to the young men, and waited for Mr.
Conklin to take another shot. But Mr. Conklin couldn&#39;t
see it that way. He said he thought we could find his
first one.</p>
<p>&quot;How about it, boy?&quot; he ast me.</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s gone,&quot; I told him.</p>
<p>&quot;The Woodmen of the World couldn&#39;t never locate that
baby!&quot; said Jake.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Mr. Conklin, &quot;I&#39;ll have to borrow a ball.&quot;
And he looked toward Mr. Perkins.</p>
<p>But Mr. Perkins was admiring the ripples
that his last plunger had stirred up.
So I dug down in my pocket and pulled
one out.</p>
<p>&quot;Here,&quot; I said. &quot;Here&#39;s one that I&#39;ll sell
you for twenty cents.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Twenty cents!&quot; said Mr. Conklin.
&quot;Why, it&#39;s secondhand. I couldn&#39;t play
with that one.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s the oldest I&#39;ve got,&quot; I said. &quot;After
you&#39;ve driven it into a couple of ditches
you won&#39;t know the difference between it
and your Whizzes.&quot;</p>
<p>Well, he started to argue and I started to
put the ball back into my pocket; and
then he said he&#39;d take it and settle after the
game. So I gave it to him and it seemed to
bring him luck. Anyway, he managed to lift
it out to the middle of the fairway, pretty
near a hundred yards down the course. Mr.
Perkins&#39; third attempt was too close to the
woods for comfort, but it was playable.</p>
<p>&quot;Now go easy,&quot; I said to my man.
&quot;You&#39;re a stroke better off than he is. Try
and run her up to the edge of the ditch on
this one, and next time you can pitch onto
the green. Take a mashie,&quot; I told him.</p>
<p>But no! He insisted on using his brassy,
and the ball scooted along the ground and
plump into the bottom of the Cañon. And
Mr. Perkins, with a mid-iron, managed just
to clear the ditch and stop on the high
ground this side of the green.</p>
<p>I and Mr. Conklin beat the other two to
the gully, and there was our ball, laying in
about two inches of water, at the bottom of
the bank that&#39;s away from the green.</p>
<p>So Mr. Conklin said:</p>
<p>&quot;I can&#39;t play it there. What am I going
to do?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You can pick it up and toss it back on
top of the bank,&quot; I told him. &quot;It&#39;ll cost
you one stroke.&quot;</p>
<p>He looked round to see how close Mr.
Perkins was. Then he looked at his ball
again. Then he said:</p>
<p>&quot;If she only just lay out of the water, on
the other side, I could lift her onto the
green with a mashie or niblick.&quot;</p>
<p>And then he looked at me.</p>
<p>Well, I can take a hint, and I didn&#39;t have
any hesitation about pulling rough stuff on
Mr. Perkins. Warder or no warder, he&#39;d
been pretty raw himself. So I fished the
ball out of the creek and tossed it to the
other side, from where it was a pipe to loft
it to the green-that is, provided you hit it.
Mr. Conklin missed it the first time, and
as Jake and Mr. Perkins were getting pretty
close to us he made his next attempt in a
hurry. He connected, but didn&#39;t get under
the ball good, and it just did manage to roll
up to the top of the bank and stop alongside
of Mr. Perkins&#39;.</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins ast us how many we&#39;d shot.</p>
<p>&quot;Let&#39;s see,&quot; said Mr. Conklin. &quot;How
many is it, boy?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Let&#39;s see,&quot; I said. &quot;There was your first
tee shot, into the woods; then your second
tee shot; then your brassy in the ditch,
and your pitch out. Four, altogether.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins looked kind of suspicious.
He said:</p>
<p>&quot;I thought I saw you miss one swing in
the ditch.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Miss one!&quot; said Mr. Conklin. &quot;Of
course I did. But it was practice.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, then,&quot; said Mr. Perkins, &quot;we&#39;re
alike as we lay. I&#39;ve had four strokes without
any practice.&quot;</p>
<p>So I said:</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t see how you could put two balls
so close together in the river without some
practice.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;re too fresh!&quot; said Mr. Perkins.
&quot;This is the last time you&#39;ll caddy in a
game I&#39;m in.&quot;</p>
<p>So I said: &quot;I knew that the minute we
left the first tee.&quot;</p>
<p>They were both nervous now. While Mr.
Conklin was getting ready to approach, I
was scared to death that his knees would
knock each other out and maybe cripple
him for life. He finally dribbled his ball six
feet, and when Mr. Perkins accidentally
approached to about four feet from the can
I thought we were gone. We were still off
of the green yet. Mr. Conklin took his
putter and stopped five feet from the cup.
He shot again and missed by a foot. Mr.
Perkins could cop the hole by going down
in three putts from four feet away. The
idear got the best of him and pretty near
choked him to death. He didn&#39;t have anything
for his Adam&#39;s apple to hide behind,
and I could see it bobbing up and down
like one of those there bell buoys. His arms
were shaking so that he couldn&#39;t control his
club, and he hit the ball while he was still
trying to aim. Then he leaned over it again
and this time he was all right, except his
direction and distance. The ball stopped
off to one side, behind Mr. Conklin&#39;s and
about a foot farther away,</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve got you stymied,&quot; said Mr. Conklin.
&quot;I&#39;ll putt and get out of your road.&quot;</p>
<p>But Mr. Perkins leaned over and picked
up both balls.</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll halve the hole,&quot; he said. &quot;We&#39;re
both down in seven.&quot;</p>
<p>Seven&#39;s his favorite number, I guess.</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin thought he had a kick coming
and started to say something, but Mr.
Perkins was walking off the green. If
they&#39;d both putted it out I bet neither one
of them would of gone down in less&#39;n sixteen,
the way they were wabbling.</p>
<p>Our last hole&#39;s a funny one. You can&#39;t
see the green from the tee on account of
what we call the Airline. It&#39;s a kind of a
hill, about fifteen or twenty feet high, that
runs all the way acrost the course, thirty
yards from the tee. On both sides of it
there&#39;s long grass and marsh, and everything
else; and over to the right there&#39;s another
part of the jungle that you&#39;re liable
to get into on the eighth.</p>
<p>After you leave the eighth green the caddies
always give the guys their drivers, and
then go up and stand on top of the Airline,
so&#39;s they can see where the drives light.
When a man has played the hole a few
times and gets to know it, he can drive for
it just as accurate as if he could see the
green. The distance is only about two-fifty,
and Mac&#39;s often made it in three, and
once in a while in two. He can drive right
on the green once in five or six times.</p>
<p>I and Jake left our men and took the
short cut through the woods to the top of
the Airline. Jake said:</p>
<p>&quot;There&#39;s no use of us going up there.
They&#39;ll both flivver and fall short.&quot;</p>
<p>I ast him if he had anything on his bird.</p>
<p>&quot;Have I!&quot; he said. &quot;Say, when he was
laying against the woods on the eighth, before
that mid-iron shot, he kicked the ball
five feet toward the middle of the course,
so&#39;s he could get a real whack at it. And,
at that, he whiffed before he belted it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t forget to remind him of that,&quot; I
said.</p>
<p>&quot;Do you think I&#39;m Davy?&quot; said Jake.</p>
<p>It was Mr. Perkins&#39; honor, if you could
say that about him. Anyway, he shot first
and topped into the rough at the left, short
of the hill. Mr. Conklin made just as good
a drive, and they laid close together. We
ran down to give them their mashies.</p>
<p>&quot;Now is our chance!&quot; I whispered to
Jake.</p>
<p>&quot;You start,&quot; he said.</p>
<p>So, while I was changing my man&#39;s clubs,
I said kind of offhand:</p>
<p>&quot;Play easy now. Be sure you hit the
ball. You remember, when we were in the
ditch on the eighth⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>He had a coughing spell and I waited till
he was through with it. Then I begun
again:</p>
<p>&quot;When you&#39;re trying to loft a ball up
over something you&#39;re liable to be nervous
and miss it entirely. You did it on⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>That&#39;s as far as I got. He didn&#39;t know
what to say; but he had to say something.
So he ast me to give him his niblick instead
of a mashie.</p>
<p>I said:</p>
<p>&quot;I wouldn&#39;t change if I were you. It
was a niblick you tried to get out of the
ditch with, on the eighth, and⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>He interrupted me.</p>
<p>&quot;Say, boy,&quot; he said; &quot;I&#39;m forgetful
sometimes. Before we wind up, I better
settle with you, or I&#39;m liable to walk off
without doing it at all.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Go ahead and shoot,&quot; said Mr. Perkins.
&quot;I&#39;ve got to be getting home.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m going to settle with the boy here
first,&quot; said Mr. Conklin, and he dropped his
club and begun going through his pockets.</p>
<p>He came up with a two-dollar bill.</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s a quarter a round, ain&#39;t it?&quot; he
ast me.</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, sir,&quot; I said; &quot;and the ball I gave
you is twenty cents. You&#39;ll find that&#39;s a
mighty good ball. It don&#39;t even hurt it to
lay in the water, like when we were⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>He interrupted me again.</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s all right,&quot; he said. &quot;I owe you
forty-five cents. This is the smallest I&#39;ve
got; but it don&#39;t make any difference. I
guess you can find some use for the rest of
it.&quot;</p>
<p>And he slipped me the two-spot.</p>
<p>It took them two more apiece to get over
the Airline and into the marsh on the other
side. They laid ten feet apart, with Mr.
Perkins away. His ball was in a bad spot.
There was weeds, a bunch of them, right
behind it, and you were lucky to hit it at
all. If you did hit it you wouldn&#39;t have any
force after cutting through the weeds.</p>
<p>&quot;You got a rotten lie,&quot; said Jake, so&#39;s
we could all hear him. &quot;I should think
you could kick it away from those weeds
to where you could get a crack at it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Kick it away!&quot; said Mr. Perkins.
&quot;That&#39;s against the rules.&quot;</p>
<p>So Jake said:</p>
<p>&quot;Why, don&#39;t you remember when you
laid next to the woods⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin wasn&#39;t the only one with a
bad cold.</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;re even worse off now,&quot; said Jake,
&quot;than when you were laying against those
trees on the eighth. And then⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Perkins had heard a-plenty. He went
up to Jake, pretending to look in the bag for
another club or something. And when he
moved back to his ball again to shoot, Jake
was putting the day&#39;s receipts in his pocket.</p>
<p>Whether Mr. Perkins was mad or not I
don&#39;t know; but he cut through those
weeds with that mashie as though he&#39;d
been saving up for this shot all afternoon.
And, believe me, he got a whale of a shot,
the ball carrying pretty near to the green
and rolling onto it!</p>
<p>I thought to myself &quot;It&#39;s good night to
my man!&quot;</p>
<p>But maybe he was sore too. Or maybe
he&#39;d just come to realize how bad he needed
a new ball. Anyway, he pulled one pretty
near as good as Mr. Perkins&#39;, stopping just
off of the green.</p>
<p>&quot;What&#39;s come over them?&quot; I whispered
to Jake.</p>
<p>&quot;They ain&#39;t muscle-bound no more,&quot; he
said. &quot;They&#39;ve both loosened up.&quot;</p>
<p>Mr. Conklin approached and went six or
seven feet past the cup. Mr. Perkins was
quavering again, and he stopped about the
same distance short. He was away. He already
had his putter in his hands, but he
was too scared to know if it was a golf club
or a monkey wrench. What did he do but
stick it into the bag and haul out his spoon,
the first time he&#39;d touched it all day!</p>
<p>&quot;What are you going to do with that?&quot;
Jake ast him.</p>
<p>And then the poor goop came to and
looked at it.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve played too hard,&quot; he said, kind of
half smiling. &quot;Conklin, what do you say if
we call it square?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m willing,&quot; said Mr. Conklin; and
you bet he was!</p>
<p>Neither one of them could have hit their
ball in three putts.</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll call this hole halved in fives,&quot;
said Mr. Perkins. &quot;And-let&#39;s see: As near
as I can figure, that gives us both a medal
score of fifty-four apiece.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;He means,&quot; said Jake to me, &quot;that
their score&#39;s fifty-four apiece after they&#39;ve
meddled with it.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>We took their bags and started for the
shop.</p>
<p>&quot;How much did you get?&quot; I ast Jake.</p>
<p>He told me a dollar and a half.</p>
<p>&quot;But I guess we earned it,&quot; he said.
&quot;We&#39;ve been out three hours.&quot;</p>
<p>So I said:</p>
<p>&quot;Davy can have them after this.&quot; And
then I happened to think of the bet we&#39;d
made him. &quot;Say, Jake,&quot; I said, &quot;he&#39;s just
a kid and don&#39;t know how to handle these
fellas. He&#39;ll learn when he&#39;s older. It
don&#39;t seem right for us to take advantage
of him and collect that dough.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Jake. &quot;Let&#39;s show him the
proceeds and tell him the bet&#39;s off.&quot; And
then he said: &quot;Say, my old man told me if
I saved up twenty-five dollars between now
and Christmas he&#39;d give me ten to put
with it. What do you think about us both
taking these geezers&#39; money and putting
it in some bank?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m with you,&quot; I said-&quot;only the bank
won&#39;t be one of Mr. Conklin&#39;s.&quot;</p>

		</article>
	</body>
</html>