<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Dinner</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="dinner" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dinner</h2>
<p class='pindent'>Harry Barton was thirty-three years old, unmarried and good-looking.
Young matrons liked him as a filler-in at dinner parties,
but he hated dinner parties unless they promised an evening of
contract. So it was with a heavy heart that he heard Grace Halpern’s
voice on the telephone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ve just got to do this for me! I know you’ll hate it.
There won’t be any bridge. But Frank backed out at the last minute
and I can’t get anybody else. I honestly tried. I tried Bill;
I even tried Lester Graham, but neither of them can come. And
I must have two bachelors because there are going to be two girls
from out of town, girls who were in my class in boarding school.
They really are peaches and I can’t disappoint them. Please
say——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Harry was a bad liar and, besides, he liked Grace. He had had
lots of good times at her house. He said yes and wished all the
rest of the day that he hadn’t.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He arrived late at the Halperns’, too late to get half enough
cocktails. He knew everybody there excepting the two peaches, a
Miss Coakley and a Miss Rell. They were strikingly pretty, Miss
Coakley a pony brunette and Miss Rell a rather tall, slender
blonde. Harry thought maybe it wouldn’t be so bad after all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His hostess drew him aside before dinner was announced.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m going to reward you for this. I’m going to let you sit
between them at dinner. And remember, they’re both free.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you mean, free?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not engaged or anything. And I think it’s about time you
were settling down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The other bachelor, Dave Wallace, sat on Miss Coakley’s left,
with Harry, as Grace had promised, between Miss Coakley and
Miss Rell.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Grace tells me you’re a great bridge player,” Miss Rell said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, but I like——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Which do you consider the greatest authority, Lenz or Works
or Whitehall? I don’t know anything about it myself, but I hear
people arguing about it at home, I mean I live in Chicago. I belong
to a bridge club there and I was just getting so the others
didn’t laugh at me when somebody introduced this horrible contract
and I simply gave up. That’s the game, you know, where you
don’t bid anything but slams and I just haven’t the nerve, I mean
in bridge. I don’t want you to think I’m a coward in everything.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Because I’m not. I made a flight with Lindbergh in Washington.
It was arranged through Congressman Burleigh. He’s
a great friend of my father’s. You know, Burleigh the paint people
in South Chicago. Oh, it was too thrilling for words! But I
felt just as safe as if I’d been in a car, safer because once I was in
a terrible smash-up out in Lake Forest and the doctor said I was
lucky to escape without at least a few broken ribs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was a little bit scared when we first started, but then I
thought to myself this is the man who flew from Detroit to Paris
and why should anybody be frightened just flying twenty minutes
over Washington with him at the wheel. Have you ever been up?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, I——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then you don’t know what a real thrill is. Honestly, it just
makes you gasp, like the first time you dive in Lake Michigan. I
really dive and I swim awfully well and some of the men say I
swim awfully well for a girl. There’s one man in Chicago, Lee
Roberts—he and his wife are our best friends, I mean my brother’s
and mine—Lee calls me Gertrude Ederle; you know she’s the girl
who swam across the English Channel and back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course he says it just joking because naturally I’m not in
her class. She’s quite fat, isn’t she? Or haven’t you ever seen
her? She looks fat in her pictures. But then you can’t always tell
from pictures. There was a picture of me in the rotogravure section
that made me look simply hideous.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Halpern, on Miss Rell’s right, spoke to her and Harry
found himself attacked by Miss Coakley.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Burton, I was just telling Mr. Walters about—— I don’t
know whether you’d be interested or not—maybe you don’t—but
still everybody I’ve told, they think—it’s probably——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m sure I’d like to hear it,” said Harry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hate to bore people with—you know how it is—you’d be too
polite to—and this is so awfully—well, it isn’t a thing that—it’s
just interesting if you happen—people in Baltimore—though
we’ve only lived there a few——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If,” said Harry to himself, “she doesn’t complete a sentence
in the next two minutes, I’m going to ask Grace for a high-ball.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“——it was some people who lived—well, our apartment was
just two buildings—they were people you wouldn’t want—but it
was in a kind of secluded—not many apartments—it’s a neighborhood
that’s just—and my sister’s little boy goes to the same school
as——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Grace,” said Harry, “am I an old enough customer here to
ask for a drink?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Whatever you like,” said his hostess.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d like a high-ball. I had a pretty tough day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Rell turned on him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, are you in the Street? That’s what they call Wall Street,
isn’t it? I should think it would be just thrilling! But I suppose
it is hard work, too. You stand there all day and shout at other
men, don’t you, and they shout back at you? It must ruin your
voice. Why, I know we went to the Illinois-Chicago game last fall
and I got excited and yelled so for Illinois that I couldn’t talk for
a week.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That must have——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you have football here in the East? Oh, certainly you do!
I’d forgotten—Yale and Harvard. And which are the Giants?
I never can keep them straight. My father and Lou—that’s my
brother; we’re great pals—he and Father read the sporting page
religiously every day. I tease them about it and they tease me
about reading the society news and the movies. We have great
tiffs over it, all in fun of course.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Father is a great golfer, I mean really. He’s fifty-four years
old and he plays the Onwentsia course in sixty, or maybe it’s a
hundred and sixty. Which would be right? He wanted me to
take it up and begged and begged till finally one day I went out
and played nine holes with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I made some wonderful shots, I mean I really did, and he
said I had a perfect natural swing and if I would take lessons from
the professor it wouldn’t be long before I could be playing in
tournaments, just for women I mean. Wouldn’t that be exciting!
But I just couldn’t do it; I’d die!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And besides, it seems to me that girls who win things in sports
are always queer looking, at least most of them, and what chance
would—I mean it would be almost unheard of if—— Well, I just
don’t believe I could ever be a champion of anything. Do you
play golf?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to try it. It’s lots of fun, especially for a man. I
mean men seem to have such good times playing together, the
nineteenth hole and all that. And I should think it would be such
wonderful relaxation for you over the weekend after that Wall
Street grind.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not in Wall Street.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, now I’ve got an expert here, I wish you’d tell me what are
bulls and what are bears? Father’s tried to explain it to me, but
I can’t get it straight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, a bull is——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you ever been to bull-fights, I mean in Spain or Mexico?
They say they are terribly thrilling, but terribly cruel. I mean
about the horses. You know what they do, don’t you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. I never heard of them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, they bring out three or four old horses into the ring and
men with spears spear the bull and get him mad at the horses and
he goes after them and kills them and the blood makes him mad
at everybody and then the man comes out and kills him. They call
them toreadors.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The man that fights the bull. Haven’t you ever heard ‘Carmen,’
I mean the opera? There’s a toreador in that. He sings a
song; it goes, ‘<span class='it'>Toreador, en garde</span>.’ That’s the French. It’s a
French opera. Carmen is the girl; she works in a cigaret factory.
First she falls in love with a soldier and then this toreador wins
her away from him, but the soldier kills himself and her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I haven’t heard it for years; I like to go to ones I haven’t heard
so much. We’ve got a simply gorgeous opera company in Chicago.
Everybody says it’s better than the Metropolitan. And Rosa Raisa
is the greatest dramatic soprano I ever heard. She’s Ruffo’s wife.
No, I guess she’s Rimini’s. Anyway, they’re both barytones.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Again Mr. Halpern intervened and Harry took on Miss Coakley
for another round.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Walters and I were just—— Don’t you like Nassau better
than—I mean for climate—and the different colors of the
water—and it’s ideal bathing, hardly any surf—of course lots of
people prefer heavy surf—but for people like me who can’t—and
I think the crowd that goes there—and the tennis. Then there’s
that lovely garden, with the orchestra.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Three of us girls—I think it was four winters—it was three
winters ago. One night we went—it’s the Holy Rollers—honestly
they do the craziest—a man told us they were just—but I couldn’t
believe it, they were so—I think—— Have you ever been there,
Mr. Burton?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We went by land to—and then from Miami—when you wake
up—it’s the most beautiful—with the sun just rising over the islands—it’s
simply heavenly—it’s just—— Well, you have no
idea!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, I have,” said Harry to himself, and aloud: “Grace, I’d
like a high-ball. I had a tough day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The days are getting shorter,” said his hostess.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I imagine every day must be pretty hard for you men in the
Street,” said Miss Rell.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not in any street,” said Harry. “Not even a path.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know how secretive you Wall Street men are,” said Miss
Rell, “but I wonder if you would do me a favor. Just before I left
home, I heard Father talking about some stock that I think he said
he had a tip on—he’s got a lot of influential friends that tell him
things like that, but of course nobody like you who is right in Wall
Street. Now it would be perfectly wonderful if you would tell me
whether this stock is any good or not and then when I go home, I
can tell Father what you said and who you are and he’ll think his
child isn’t so dumb after all. Will you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the stock?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t it marvelous that I remember the name of it? It’s General
Motors.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“General Motors! Well, listen, if you’ll keep this under your
hat——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, that reminds me, I saw your Mayor Jimmy Walker in the
parade today and I told Grace I thought he was the only man in
the world who could wear a high hat without looking silly. Do
you know him? I’ll bet he’s fascinating to know. He’s cute! I
wish we had a cute mayor. I suppose you New Yorkers must
think our town is a regular wild West show. It really isn’t as bad
as all that.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lou—that’s my brother—he said the funniest thing the night
before I came away. No, it was Wednesday night he said it and
I didn’t leave till Friday noon on the Century. What was I saying?
Oh, yes, Father and Lou and I were waiting for dinner—you
know we live on the North Side, just a block south of the park—and
anyway there were some noises out on the street that
sounded just like pistol-shots and Father hurried to the window
and looked out and announced that it was just back-fire from a
truck.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then Lou said, ‘Well, I’m glad they’re beginning to defend
themselves.’ He meant the trucks were firing back at whoever
was shooting at them. Or would it be whomever? I never can get
who and whom straight. But Lou is awfully witty; I mean he
really is. He has had two or three things in ‘College Humor.’
What was your college?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Electoral College.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you’re an engineer! And what are you doing on Wall
Street? I suppose you gave up your profession ‘for gold.’ You
ought to be ashamed of yourself! You might be accomplishing
big things like building bridges. Which reminds me, do you play
bridge?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to, honestly. I’m not very good, but it’s lots of
fun. I belong to a club and we just have a circus. The other girls
used to laugh at me, I was so dumb, but this last winter I got good;
I mean really not bad at all. And then, just when I was doing so
well, they decided to play this contract and I can’t get it at all.
You don’t bid anything but slams and I just can’t do that. I simply
haven’t the nerve.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you ever been up with Lindbergh?” asked Harry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. I’m not joking. I really mean it. It was while he was
in Washington. My father arranged it through Congressman
Burleigh. That’s the Burleigh Paint Company in South Chicago.
Mr. Burleigh is a congressman and one of Father’s closest friends.
It was the most thrilling experience I ever had in my life. And I
wasn’t frightened at all, only a little bit, like when you go in
swimming and dive for the first time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Can you dive?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to see me! Honestly, not boasting, I’m a regular
Gertrude Ederle; you know, the girl that swam across the English
Channel so many times. I wouldn’t want to swim that Channel,
though. It’s bad enough in a boat. I’m a pretty good sailor, but
the last time my brother and I crossed from Calais to Dover, well,
‘it happens in the best of families,’ as Briggs says, or is it Mutt
and Jeff?</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you read the funny pages? I suppose I oughtn’t to confess
it, but I read them religiously. Father often jokes me about it
and pretends the money he spent sending me to college was all
wasted because all I got out of it was a taste for ‘the funnies.’ I
answer him back by saying he went to college, too, and all he cares
anything about now is golf. It’s all joking of course. Father and
I are the best friends and chums! What was your college?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The War College.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, West Point! I’d just love to go up there and watch them
drill sometime! I’ve seen it across the river going by on the train
and it looks lovely. And fall before last, Father and Lou and I
went to the big football game between West Point and the Annapolis
Navy. You know they had it in Chicago, at Soldiers’
Field, in Grant Park. It’s an enormous place and lots of people
couldn’t see the game at all, but our seats were grand. Father got
them through Congressman Burleigh.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is that,” asked Harry, “the Burleigh who’s in the paint business
in South Chicago?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you know him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I bought a can of paint from him once when I was redecorating
my garage.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, he’s one of Father’s best friends. He’s in Congress.
How funny that you should really know him!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You can meet congressmen if you go at it the right way.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Coakley was talking.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mr. Buckley, will you——? Mr. Walsh and I—— Just
what was it you said, Mr.——?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t remember saying anything,” replied Dave Wallace on
her left.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, you—— He did, too, Mr.—— He said the Mauretania
was the—— And I said the Paris or the Majestic, or the
Berengaria—— Now we want you to give us your honest——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I never crossed on anything but the Santa Maria,” said Harry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Italy, how I love it! I could simply—— There’s no
other country—it just seems as if—— If it weren’t for my sister
in Baltimore—maybe some day—— But a girl is foolish——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Grace,” said Harry, “how’s the Scotch holding out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The whole week must have been tough,” said Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t see how you men live through it,” said Miss Rell,
“standing there on the floor of the Exchange all day, shouting at
each other. Why, it simply kills me just to stand and wait five
minutes in a shop! To have to do it all day, I’d perish! How do
you endure it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, you know those little stools that golf fans carry around
with them. I never go on the floor without one,” said Harry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My father is the greatest golf fan in the world; I mean I really
believe he is, without exception. He never plays less than four
times a week and he’s a fine player, I mean for a man his age.
He’s fifty-four years old and he goes around Onwentsia in a hundred
and twenty. Can that be right?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Easily.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Dinner was over and they went into the living-room. Harry
and Dave Wallace were together a moment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I notice you didn’t talk much,” remarked Dave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But what I said made a big impression.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d have traded you Coakley for your dame. Your gal just
goes along as if she were speaking into a mike, but Miss Coakley
is a perpetual missing-word contest and it’s impossible to keep out
of it—every little while you feel as if you just had to guess what’s
left out.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She called me Burton and Buckley.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She called me everything from Welling to Wolheim.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Harry tried to hide behind the piano, but Miss Rell soon found
him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If we could get two more, don’t you think Grace would let
us play bridge?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know the game,” said Harry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I’d just love to teach you. I can teach you regular auction,
but not this new contract, where you just bid and bid till
you’re dizzy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I haven’t any card sense and besides, I think that liquor Grace
gave me was bad.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, truly?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m going to ask her where she got it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know a man, or at least my father does, who gets the real
thing straight from Canada. Only he’s out in Chicago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Harry peremptorily summoned Grace into the hall.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Grace, that’s terrible Scotch you’ve got. It’s given me the first
headache I’ve had in years.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I understand, and I’ll tell them you were sick and had to go
home. You were a darling to come and I’ll never forget it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Neither will I.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At the door he said:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Remember, old girl, I’ve left your schoolmates just as I found
them. They’re still free.”</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>