<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Great Blessings</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="great-blessings" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Great Blessings</h2>
<p>&quot;The season again approaches,&quot; proclaimed the
President in one of his proclaiming moods,
&quot;when it has been the custom for years to
set apart a day of Thanksgiving for the blessings
which the Giver of All Good and Perfect Gifts has
bestowed upon us during the year. It is most becoming
that we should do this, for the goodness and mercy of
God, which have followed us through the year, deserve
our grateful recognition and acknowledgment.</p>
<p>&quot;Our fields have been abundantly productive, our industries
have flourished, our commerce has increased,
wages have been lucrative, and comfort and contentment
have followed the undisturbed pursuit of honest
toil. As we have prospered in material things, so have
we also grown and expanded in things spiritual.</p>
<p>&quot;Wherefore I hereby set aside Thursday, the twenty-eighth
day of November, as a day of general thanksgiving
and prayer, and I recommend that on that day the
people shall cease from their daily work and in their
homes and accustomed places of worship devoutly give
thanks to the Almighty for the many and great blessings
they have received, and seek His guidance that
they may deserve a continuance of His favor.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>Myrtle Stewart, aged ten, asked her mother for more
cranberry sauce.</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, no, dear! You don&#39;t want to get sick.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I won&#39;t get sick.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You will if you have more cranberry sauce. Remember,
you must leave room for
pumpkin pie.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t want pumpkin pie. I
want more cranberry sauce.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Let her have it, Clara. It can&#39;t
hurt her.&quot;</p>
<p>This was the elder Mrs. Stewart
speaking, Clara&#39;s mother-in-law.</p>
<p>&quot;She shouldn&#39;t eat any sweets at
all. Doctor Fred says that&#39;s what&#39;s
the matter with her stomach.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;There&#39;s nothing the matter with
her stomach. How does Doctor Fred
know? He never had any children of his own. When
Tod and Harry were Myrtle&#39;s age, I didn&#39;t refuse them
anything, and I can&#39;t see that they&#39;re any the worse
for it.&quot;</p>
<p>Tod was Clara&#39;s husband and Harry her brother-in-law,
who had gone away to Detroit five years ago and
was doing well there as a hotel manager with the liquor
concession, just for the hotel, not the entire city. His
salary was a small part of his income, but his parents
didn&#39;t know this. His stomach and Tod&#39;s were in such
condition that they could digest nothing but gin, which
had no connection, of course, with the fact that Mother
Stewart had indulged them when they were Myrtle&#39;s
age.</p>
<p>During the first six years of the married life of Clara
and Tod, the family Thanksgiving dinner had been at
Harry&#39;s house. It was bigger and the Harry Stewarts
usually could afford a maid. Grace, Harry&#39;s wife, had
not allowed a hostess&#39; responsibilities to weigh her
down. Mother Stewart had disapproved of her because
she drank a little, smoked when she liked, and was
childless, but her mother-in-law&#39;s thinly veiled hostility
amused her up to a certain point, and when that point
was reached, she walked out on her guests, saying she
had promised to play bridge awhile at the Browns&#39;.</p>
<p>Clara neither smoked nor drank, and had brought
Myrtle into the world. This had made her the preferred
daughter-in-law, but only temporarily. Tod&#39;s
inability to hold a good job was his wife&#39;s fault, and
she was too strict with Myrtle. And
Grace&#39;s depravity was forgotten as
soon as she and Harry moved to Detroit
and Harry began making
fifteen thousand a year, of which he
sent home a hundred dollars every
Christmas.</p>
<p>Grace had perhaps been wise not
to have a child. A hotel was no
place in which to bring one up. Besides,
she was not strong-compared
with Tunney.</p>
<p>This was the fifth Thanksgiving
Father and Mother Stewart had come to Clara&#39;s house.
It was a habit now and they came without an invitation.</p>
<p>Clara, not blessed with a temperament like Grace&#39;s,
stood it as well as she could. At the end of the day
she always wished she could drink enough gin to revive
her spirits, but one small shot made her sick and she
had to stay well to take care of Myrtle and Tod, both
of whom invariably suffered a decline following a visit
from the old people.</p>
<p>However, Clara would not have minded Thanksgiving
if it had been the only day in the year when her
mother-in-law and father-in-law swooped down on her.
They dropped in three or four times a month, usually
just before a meal, and Myrtle&#39;s grandfather brought
a particularly brutal brand of candy.</p>
<p>Worst of all, they had dropped in one evening in
July, when Tod and Clara had left Myrtle at home
alone while they attended the first show at the Gem.
Their voices had awakened Myrtle and she had cried.
No wonder, left alone without a light in the house.</p>
<p>&quot;It isn&#39;t sweet things that upset her,&quot; asserted
Mother Stewart now. &quot;It&#39;s nervousness. She isn&#39;t over
her fright and I doubt if she ever gets over it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What fright?&quot; said Tod.</p>
<p>&quot;Waking up and finding herself alone in the dark.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That was nearly five months ago. And she wouldn&#39;t
have waked up if you hadn&#39;t waked her.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m glad we did wake her. Almost anything could
have happened. Tramps might have walked right in.
They won&#39;t stop at anything when they&#39;re starving.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>&quot;I think they&#39;d stop at Myrtle,&quot; said Tod. &quot;She&#39;s tough.&quot;
&quot;That&#39;s a nice way for a father to speak of his
child! A dear child like Myrtle!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Myrtle&#39;s a dear child, all right,&quot; Tod conceded, &quot;and
I imagine she seems even dearer than she is when you
don&#39;t have to live with her all the time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d ask nothing better than to have her with me,&quot;
said Mother Stewart. &quot;I guess her grandmother appreciates
her, even if her parents don&#39;t.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Tod isn&#39;t both of her parents,&quot; said Clara. &quot;I appreciate her.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But you forget she&#39;s just a child. It breaks her
spirit, being so strict with her.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Strict! I don&#39;t have a chance to be strict.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;After all, Clara&#39;s her mother,&quot; said the elder
Stewart, slipping his grandchild a chocolate
cream under the table.</p>
<p>He felt it was time to change the subject, even
if the change were for the worse.</p>
<p>&quot;How&#39;s things at the office, Tod?&quot; he asked.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know,&quot; said his son.</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean, you don&#39;t know?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, Dad, I haven&#39;t been
there since last Saturday. They
let me out.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What was the matter?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;They didn&#39;t like me, I guess.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You were only there two
weeks.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s plenty of time for people
to tell whether they like you
or not.&quot;</p>
<p>“Don&#39;t talk so foolishly, Tod!&quot;
said Mother Stewart. &quot;Myrtle
isn&#39;t old enough to understand
your nonsense, and children repeat
things outside.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s only the truth.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s not the truth and you
know it! Old Kendall hasn&#39;t
brains enough to appreciate you.
Or maybe that boy of his is
jealous. And you weren&#39;t well,
anyway. How could you do
yourself justice when you felt so
miserable? Besides, it was no
place for you, a hot, stuffy, dirty
office like that! I don&#39;t believe
anyone even dusts. I wouldn&#39;t
worry about losing that kind of
a position.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t worry, Mother. I
don&#39;t worry enough. But Clara
worries and I don&#39;t blame her.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I didn&#39;t say I was worried.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;There&#39;s no reason why you
should be,&quot; said her mother-in-law.
&quot;A woman who has a husband
like Tod ought to be just
proud and nothing else. Though
she ought to worry a little about
his health and see that he gets
proper food and rest.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That reminds me, I forgot to
take my medicine,&quot; said Tod,
and went to his bedroom, to the
chiffonier where he kept his
medicine in a large bottle which
someone had labeled Gordon in
a spirit of levity.</p>
<p>Mother Stewart took advantage
of his absence to inquire
whether he had any prospect
of another job, wording her inquiry
vaguely so Myrtle would
think they were discussing
bulbs. It was a waste of subtlety,
for Myrtle was too busy
stuffing herself to care what
the talk was about.</p>
<p>Clara said the only thing in
sight was a position with a
Chicago firm, getting subscriptions
in this territory for a new
twenty-volume encyclopedia.</p>
<p>&quot;He would work on a commission,
no salary.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, I should think he&#39;d
make lots more money that
way. Tod has so much charm,
people are all so fond of him
that I guess they&#39;d buy nearly
anything he asked them to.&quot;</p>
<p>She had forgotten (but Clara
remembered) that Tod had
tried out many times before as a
salesman and had proved conclusively
that he couldn&#39;t sell ant eggs to a
wealthy turtle.</p>
<p>&quot;Of course you mustn&#39;t allow him to
take it if it means much walking
around, or lugging twenty big books
everywhere he goes. He can describe
the books and not carry them. Or he
could have a set of them here at the
house and invite people to come and
see them. Maybe you could help by
serving sandwiches and ginger ale.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;They aren&#39;t even published yet.
There&#39;s just a prospectus.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, it would save him walking and tiring himself
out if you kept that here and invited people in. Harry&#39;s
feet got terribly calloused once, taking the census.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>&quot;Couldn&#39;t he have made people come to the house
and give their names?&quot; said Clara. &quot;I should think
they&#39;d have been more willing when they didn&#39;t have
to buy anything.&quot;</p>
<p>But it was necessary to change the subject again, for
Tod was back at the table.</p>
<p>&quot;Myrtle,&quot; said Clara, &quot;will you get your grandfather
some more water while Mother clears the table?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, the poor child! Don&#39;t make a servant of her!
Maybe that&#39;s why she has trouble with her digestion,
having to jump up and wait on people in the middle
of a meal. Ben doesn&#39;t want any more water, and Tod
hasn&#39;t finished his turkey.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I can&#39;t eat any more, Mother. I&#39;m full.”</p>
<p>&quot;Why, you haven&#39;t eaten anything at all.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve eaten all I wanted.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Maybe⁠—Still, Clara&#39;s getting to be a pretty good
cook. You are a much better cook than you were,
Clara.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Thanks. Oh, Mother Stewart, don&#39;t get up! What
do you want?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I thought if Ben has to have more water⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll get him some. You sit still.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, all right,&quot; said Mother Stewart, resuming her
seat; &quot;but rather than see Myrtle⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;We used to have wine Thanksgivings at Harry&#39;s,&quot;
recalled Father Stewart. &quot;Claret wine. I don&#39;t get it
any more.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll never forget the Thanksgiving when Grace was
so pie-eyed.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s enough, Tod!&quot; his mother warned. &quot;Little
pitchers, you know.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll bet Myrtle remembers it herself. Do you, Myrt?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Remember what?&quot; said Myrtle.</p>
<p>&quot;Little girls mustn&#39;t try to understand their father&#39;s
silly jokes. They must just eat and get big and strong.&quot;</p>
<p>Clara hoped Myrtle would not eat all her pie, but she
did, though the last few mouthfuls were taken without
enthusiasm.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll help you with the dishes,&quot; said Mother Stewart.</p>
<p>&quot;No, indeed! It&#39;s nice of you to offer, but I couldn&#39;t
think of letting you. If you&#39;ll amuse Myrtle⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>The same two speeches had followed every meal her
parents-in-law had eaten at Clara&#39;s in seven or eight
years.</p>
<p>When Clara was through in the kitchen, she went
into the living room and found Father Stewart dozing
in his favorite chair. Tod was absent after more medicine.
Myrtle was lying on the couch and her grandmother
sat beside her, stroking her forehead.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t think she feels very good. She complains
of stomach ache. It will take her a long time to get
over that fright.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>Myrtle slept and Clara wished she could sleep, too,
but she had to listen to Mother Stewart.</p>
<p>&quot;I had a letter from Grace Saturday. She apologized
for not writing oftener; she said she had so little time.
I imagine she helps Harry a great deal. She said she
and Harry would love to have us come and pay them
a visit, but the hotel was full all the while and we
wouldn&#39;t be comfortable with the noise and everything.</p>
<p>&quot;Grace has turned out to be just the right kind of a
wife for Harry. He was very patient with her at the
start, always sure she would improve. And she certainly
has. It means a lot to a man to have a wife like
Grace. Most women don&#39;t realize their responsibility.</p>
<p>&quot;I sometimes wonder what would have become of Ben
if I had been less understanding. With Tod and Harry
to take care of, and doing my own housework, I was
pretty busy, but I always found time—”</p>
<p>And so on. Clara interrupted the monologue twice.
She went to see how Tod&#39;s
medicine was affecting him. He was on
the bed, taking a nap. Later on, the
doorbell rang. It was the twelve-year-old
Butler kid. He had a message for
Tod from his brother. He wouldn&#39;t give
it to Clara.</p>
<p>Tod woke up and came to the door
and the boy gave him the message. Not
in Clara&#39;s hearing. The boy&#39;s brother
was Frank Butler, who supplied Tod with
medicine and trusted him for the money.</p>
<p>Also in the Butler family was Mamie
Butler, a girl about twenty-five, quite
pretty and with a reputation for looseness.
Clara had seen her talking with
Tod on the corner one day. And hadn&#39;t
she heard Frank say he was going to the
football game this afternoon?</p>
<p>Father Stewart was awake again. Tod
sat down in the living room.</p>
<p>&quot;Ben,&quot; said Mother Stewart, &quot;you
might as well tell them our news now.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I suppose I might. Well, it&#39;s just
that it looks like we&#39;re liable to lose
our home.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How&#39;s that?&quot; said Tod.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, Mrs. Davis told us a month ago
that we better be looking for new quarters.
It seems her boy and his wife are
planning on giving up housekeeping and
moving in with the old lady. Of course
they&#39;d have to have our rooms and—-Well,
that&#39;s the story.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;When do you have to get out?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;In a couple of weeks; sooner, if we
can find a place.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;ll be pretty hard,&quot; said Mother
Stewart, &quot;to find just what we want.
It&#39;s got to be a place where we can
board, too. I can&#39;t cook any more and
I certainly can&#39;t do all the housework,
though I could help a little.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d ask you to come here, but there&#39;s
no room.&quot; said Tod.</p>
<p>&quot;We wouldn&#39;t want to impose on you
and Clara.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It wouldn&#39;t be imposing, but we&#39;ve
only got the two bedrooms. We couldn&#39;t
take Myrtle in with us. The light would
wake her up when we went to bed.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;As far as that&#39;s concerned,&quot; said
Mother Stewart, &quot;we wouldn&#39;t mind
sharing a room with Myrtle. I&#39;d know
she was safe if I was there with her.
And Ben and I usually undress in the
dark. If we could come here till we find
something else, we&#39;d pay our share-</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t worry about it. We&#39;ll fix it
up some way. Clara and I&#39;ll talk it over.
Right now I got to run over to Frank
Butler&#39;s for a few minutes. There&#39;s
some job he&#39;s got lined up for me.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s lucky we never sold our old bed,&quot;
said Mother Stewart.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, Myrtle,&quot; said Father Stewart,
&quot;you had quite a nap. Maybe your
mother would let me give you a piece
of candy now.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;She mustn&#39;t have anything more now,&quot;
said Clara. &quot;She has a stomach ache.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s gone,&quot; said Myrtle.</p>
<p>&quot;But it won&#39;t stay gone if you eat any
more.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;One piece of candy wouldn&#39;t hurt her.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Honestly, Father Stewart, she has
lots of trouble with her stomach.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m sure it&#39;s all the result of nervousness,&quot;
said Mother Stewart. &quot;A child
with her imagination ought never to
be left alone, especially at night.&quot;</p>
<p>After the guests left Myrtle had cramps
and Clara summoned Doctor Fred.</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ve just got to regulate her diet,&quot;
he said. &quot;She&#39;ll never be a healthy child
till you make her eat right. I know it&#39;s
hard for a mother to say, &#39;You can&#39;t
have this or that,&#39; but you owe it to her
and yourself to be strict.&quot;</p>
<p>Clara put Myrtle to bed. Tod came
back from the Butlers&#39; very late and
she had to help him undress. She
lay awake a long time.</p>
<p>She knew Father Stewart owed Mrs.
Davis for several months&#39; board. He
owed her because he spent so much of
his small income on tobacco and candy.</p>
<p>The dinner had cost nearly ten dollars
and no one had taken the trouble to
say it was good. She had had to pay
cash for the turkey because Berger&#39;s was
a cash market and she couldn&#39;t get any
more credit at Sloan&#39;s.</p>
<p>She and Myrtle and Tod were all
desperately in need of new clothes, but
there was no prospect of having any.
Every day brought threats from the gas
company, the telephone company and
assorted merchants. Doctor Fred hadn&#39;t
been paid anything for two years.</p>
<p>Clara was thirty-five. At twenty-three
she had accepted Tod in preference
to Dave Bonham. Tod had gone
through college and had interesting ambitions,
to go to Chicago or New York
and be a journalist or write plays. Dave
had graduated from high school and
gone to work in his father&#39;s garage.
When his father had died, he had run
the garage for several years and then
sold it for a lot of money.</p>
<p>Dave had gone to Detroit and into the
real estate business. He had invested in
building lots on the edge of the city and
now he was said to be worth over eight
hundred thousand dollars, and was really
worth nearly half that sum.</p>
<p>He had been quite broken up when
Clara took Tod, and had remained
single. He had no one to support but
himself. He didn&#39;t drink and it was impossible
for him to spend more than a
small part of his income. He had heard
of Tod&#39;s &quot;tough breaks&quot; and offered to
lend Clara money, but she had refused.</p>
<p>In the days when Tod had dressed
well and taken care of himself, he had
been a much better-looking man than
Dave. But poverty and a steady diet
of gin had made him careless of his appearance
and now no woman, except,
perhaps, the easy-going Miss Butler,
could possibly consider him attractive.</p>
<p>Dave had come back to town in October.
He had intended spending a
week, but had left after one day. He
had called on Tod and Clara and talked
pleasantly about old times.</p>
<p>The years had not made him handsome.
But he dressed so well and looked
so clean. He had romped with Myrtle
and she cried when he left, though he
hadn&#39;t brought her any candy. And
another thing, he was an orphan.</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>