<p>When Walter Finch received and accepted
an offer of $30,000
a year from Bernard and
Craig, Publicity Engineers,
his wife, Marion, declared
that now they must certainly
buy, build or rent a
place in the suburbs for
the summer; it was nothing
less than criminal to
keep the kiddies cooped
up in a caldron like New
York during July, August
and September.</p>
<p>&quot;Just think, dear,&quot; she said, &quot;you&#39;re going to
make twice as much as you did at Ripley&#39;s and
we&#39;ve managed to save a little on what they
gave you, besides carrying all that silly insurance.
Now we can save nearly twice as much
as we have been and still have enough left to
enjoy ourselves a little.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t mean you and me especially, though I do
believe in people having fun before they get too old.
But the children will be so much better physically and in
every way if they can spend three months in the country.
Isn&#39;t that true, dear?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, dear. I suppose it is,&quot; replied Walter. &quot;Some
Saturday or Sunday, we&#39;ll take a run over to Jersey or up
in Westchester somewhere and see what we can find.
But we must rent, not build or buy, because in the first
place, I don&#39;t know if I can make good or not in this job,
and in the second place, we don&#39;t want to establish ourselves
permanently anywhere till we are sure we like
the people.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I think that&#39;s wise, dear. People do make all the
difference. That&#39;s why we ought to pick out some place
where we already know somebody and like them; for
instance, Hampton Dunes. You&#39;ve always been fond of
Jack Bowen and there&#39;s no one I&#39;d rather be neighbors
with than Peggy. The four of us would have a perfect
circus together and the kids would get along beautifully
with little Jack.</p>
<p>&quot;Last time I saw Peggy, she said why didn&#39;t we come
out there this summer and at least rent, but of course
then I knew it was impossible. Now, though⁠—Well,
I can&#39;t imagine anything more ideal.&quot;</p>
<p>Walter had been married ten years and his record of
arguments was, total⁠—3650; won, 0; lost, 3650. So it
was only half-heartedly that he pointed out the objections
to his wife&#39;s plan: That Hampton Dunes was one
of the &quot;swellest&quot; and most expensive places on Long
Island; that while the Finches and Bowens went to the
theater and played bridge together about once a month
in town, Jack Bowen&#39;s annual income was five times as
big as the salary Bernard and Craig were going to pay
Walter and that the Bowens&#39; friends at the Dunes were
all wealthy and much too fast for the Finches to travel
around with; that the village was too far away from
New York (nearly three hours on the good trains) to
permit Walter to make the round trip daily, and that
people living in Hampton Dunes without a car were
virtually becalmed for the summer.</p>
<p>Walter and Marion and Junior and Anne packed up
and moved out there in the latter part of June. Marion
had rented a small furnished cottage for four thousand
dollars. It was nearly half a mile from the beach, but
directly behind the Bowens&#39; big house right on the
ocean and the Finches were welcome to the use of the
Bowen beach at any and all times.</p>
<p>Walter would have to go into New York early Monday
mornings and stay there till Friday afternoon, but on
Saturdays and Sundays he could make up for it by loafing,
playing with the kids, swimming, golfing (a membership
in the club was only five hundred dollars), enjoying
himself in any way he saw fit. They bought a secondhand
sedan for eight hundred and life for Marion, at
least, became something more than a tedious struggle to
keep herself and the kids from megrims and doldrums.</p>
<hr/>
<p>Junior and Anne, chaperoned by a safe and rather inexpensive
nurse, went to the beach at the Bowens&#39;
every morning, came home for luncheon and went back
to the beach in the afternoon. For the first two weeks,
their mother had luncheon with them and sat with them
while they ate their supper, but after that she was elected
a member of a contract bridge foursome that took all her
afternoons and half her nights and made her so sleepy
that she barely managed to get up in time to start all over.</p>
<p>Peggy Bowen, Mrs. Dick Parker and Mrs. Kenneth Hart
were the others in the quartet and Marion owed her membership
to the fact that Mrs. Spears was abroad for the
summer. Mrs. Parker and Mrs. Hart were the wives of
extremely rich men, men who had inherited money, gone
through college and then enjoyed phenomenal luck in the
stock market.</p>
<p>The women played for five cents a point, sometimes
ten. Marion&#39;s limit previously had been a penny, but in
Hampton Dunes she raised it to two-and-a-half cents at
first, the others &quot;carrying&quot; her for the balance, and soon
was gambling for the same stakes as her companions,
with a prayer that Walter would never hear about it.</p>
<p>She was a good player and a good holder, and by the
middle of July was over eight hundred dollars ahead.
But hadn&#39;t been paid.</p>
<p>When her grocery and meat bills came at the end of
the first month, she swooned. The prices were terrific.
She resolved
not to tell
Walter the
facts and to
economize
thereafter.
She wrote
checks and
sent them
to the grocer
and butcher,
who, in their
turn, fainted
dead away
when they
received
them. They
were not
used to
clients who
settled their
June and
July bills before
the following
April.</p>
<p>Walter arrived home in time for dinner Friday nights.
It was nice to get away from the stuffy, dirty, hot city
and he made the most of his week-ends by golfing, swimming
and just lolling on the beach.</p>
<p>At first he golfed alone, but Jack Bowen at length persuaded
him to make a fourth in a regular set game that
lasted all through Saturday and Sunday. The others
concerned were Jack and Kenneth Hart and Dick Parker.
It seemed that Walter was filling in for Mr. Spears, who
had accompanied his wife to Europe.</p>
<p>It soon became an understood thing that the four
families⁠—the Parkers, Harts, Bowens and Finches⁠—would
spend their Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings
playing contract, at some house other than the Finches&#39;,
which was too small. The men always played together
at one table and the women at another.</p>
<p>Walter announced that he couldn&#39;t go higher than
five cents a point; in fact, that was much higher than
he ever had gone before. The other men said that was
all right, but they were playing among themselves for
ten, which Walter thought at first meant ten cents, but
soon discovered was a hundred times that much. He
got a shock one night when the totals were announced
and it was found that Parker was three thousand points
up on Hart. Just a matter of thirty thousand dollars.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll play you a cold hand for it, Dick,&quot; suggested the
loser.</p>
<p>&quot;All right; just one,&quot; said Parker.</p>
<p>Two poker hands were dealt and Parker won with two
pair against four clubs and a spade.</p>
<p>&quot;Another one?&quot; asked Hart.</p>
<p>&quot;Not tonight,&quot; said Parker.</p>
<p>&quot;O.K. That&#39;s sixty thousand,&quot; said Hart, and set about
getting his
wife started
for home.</p>
<p>This took
place at the
Bowens&#39;, and
Walter and
Marion stayed
on a while
after the
Parkers and
Harts had
gone.</p>
<p>&quot;Are those
fellas crazy?&quot;
asked Walter.</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; replied
Jack
Bowen, &quot;but I
am, to be
playing with
them. Sixty
thousand is
less than a
month&#39;s income
to either Ken or Dick. They&#39;ve both got so much
that there&#39;s no thrill for them unless the stakes are up
in five figures. Old Spears coaxed me into the game and
I was scared stiff when I learned what they were playing
for.</p>
<p>&quot;But I&#39;ve had good luck right from the start and I&#39;m
pretty well ahead. If I weren&#39;t,
I&#39;d have quit long ago. And they know
better than to suggest one of those cold
hands to me.&quot;</p>
<p>Walter himself had won over three
hundred on this particular evening, his
debtor being Hart. He hoped there
would be a check waiting for him the next
week-end. But there wasn&#39;t.</p>
<p>The four were pretty good golfers, one
of them occasionally breaking eighty
while the average was around eighty-five.
Walter considered himself plunging
when he agreed to a ten-dollar Nassau.
The other three always had quantities of
side bets besides the ones laid extemporaneously
as the play progressed.</p>
<hr/>
<p>For example, there was an afternoon
when they were at the National and
Hart and Parker were battling each
other for a thousand dollars a hole and
a Nassau of five thousand. The two were
even on the eighteenth green. Parker
left with a four-foot putt and Hart with
a six-footer for a par five.</p>
<p>Hart sank his six-footer.</p>
<p>&quot;That means a wasted afternoon for
both of us,&quot; remarked Parker.</p>
<p>&quot;Why?&quot; said Hart.</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ll concede me this putt, won&#39;t you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll not only not concede it, but I&#39;ll bet
you five thousand you don&#39;t sink it.&quot;</p>
<p>Parker took the bet and missed the
putt, which meant sixteen thousand
dollars.</p>
<p>One Sunday morning, Walter got
cocky and raised his limit to a hundred
dollars for the Nassau. He went off his
game and lost three hundred, the beneficiary
being Dick Parker.</p>
<p>That night he mailed a check to
Parker and it was duly indorsed, cashed
and canceled. But no check had come
to Walter for his winnings. He couldn&#39;t
mention it to Jack because Jack owed
him over two hundred.</p>
<p>The four golfers lunched together
nearly every Saturday and Sunday. And
they and their wives dined together Fridays,
Saturdays and Sundays before
opening four new decks.</p>
<p>Walter knew that Parker was a graduate
of Harvard and Hart of Yale; also
that Mrs. Hart had gone to Vassar and
Mrs. Parker to Smith. Yet there was
never any talk that would lead one to
believe the talkers had so much as matriculated
in the subprimary.</p>
<p>The English language was maimed and
bruised; the men apparently had never
read anything but the market reports
and the women had concentrated on
J. S. Fletcher and Sidney Lenz. When
no one was relating a suggestive story,
the conversation dealt with the future of
General Motors and Sinclair Oil, things
that had happened that day or last night
at golf or bridge, and the quality and
price of whatever beverages were being
served.</p>
<p>Everybody excepting the Finches had
made the acquaintance of an honest
bootlegger who had access to some mysterious
and never-to-be-exhausted supply
of antediluvian Scotch, champagne
and gin. You had to pay high, but
wasn&#39;t it worth it? Just taste that!</p>
<p>Walter, riding in on the train with
Jack Bowen, said: &quot;Did these people
really get college degrees?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Sure.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;And how?&quot; asked Walter.</p>
<p>&quot;The faculty was sick of them,&quot; said
Bowen.</p>
<p>Jack admitted freely that neither Hart
nor Parker was an intellectual giant, but
he had a tremendous admiration for
their courage, their willingness to risk,
against odds, amounts that would seem
like fortunes to most men, and the unruffled
manner in which they took their
losses.</p>
<p>&quot;Why, last summer I sat in a no-limit
poker game with Ken and Dick and
Alex Spears and Bob Morton. Spears
opened a pot for ten thousand. Ken
stayed with a pair of kings. Spears
drew one card and Ken took three, but
didn&#39;t help his pair. Then Spears bet
two hundred thousand dollars. And Ken
called him! Spears had two jacks, an
ace, a king and an eight-spot. Ken&#39;s
hunch had been right and his kings won.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Did Spears pay him?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, if he didn&#39;t, he will. They keep
track and settle later on.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How much later on?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know,&quot; said Bowen. &quot;Nobody
ever worries about not getting paid.
They&#39;re all good for it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How do you stand with them?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Me? I&#39;m around seventy thousand to
the good. That covers three years.”</p>
<p>&quot;Have you ever got any of it?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No, not yet. But I&#39;m not worrying.
By the way, Dick Parker thinks you&#39;re a
queer guy, sending him that three hundred
the day after you lost it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;He cashed the check.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Why wouldn&#39;t he? But he wondered
why you were in such a hurry. He said
he&#39;d trust any friend of mine.&quot;</p>
<p>Walter and Marion decided they must
give a party at the club to repay some
of their playmates&#39; hospitality.</p>
<p>&quot;I suppose we&#39;ve got to,&quot; said Walter.
&quot;But we certainly can&#39;t afford it. We
haven&#39;t saved a dime all summer. If⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;If what?&quot; demanded Marion.</p>
<p>&quot;If Jack and Hart and Parker would
come across with what they owe me for
bridge and golf⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How much do they owe you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Just under two thousand dollars.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Heavens! You must have been playing
for big stakes!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Big stakes for me; chicken feed for
them.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Marion, &quot;I may as well
make a confession to you. I&#39;ve played
bridge for five and ten cents a point, and
I&#39;ve won nearly eight hundred dollars.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where is it?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I haven&#39;t got it yet.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Of course,&quot; said Walter after a pause,
&quot;these people are perfectly good. Jack
swears to that. They&#39;ll pay us, probably,
before we move back to town. What
we want to do now is gamble conservatively
and hold on to what we&#39;ve got.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Or rather,&quot; said Marion, &quot;what we
haven&#39;t got. As far as I&#39;m concerned, I
could live comfortably without ever seeing
another pack of cards.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, we&#39;ll give the party and charge
it and maybe by the time we get the
bill our pals will have liquidated.&quot;</p>
<p>But before the dinner at the club had
been in progress three minutes, this
dream was shattered by a long, argumentative,
mathematical conversation between
Parker and Hart, both of them
slightly squiffy on Walter&#39;s cocktails,
made of gin so young that it didn&#39;t even
have a name or a birth certificate.</p>
<p>&quot;This is our last week-end, Ken,&quot; said
Parker. &quot;You&#39;ve only got tonight and
tomorrow and tomorrow night to get
even with me on the season.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you figure I owe you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;This season or altogether?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Just this season.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I make it $180,000.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Hart, &quot;you&#39;re $45,000 off.
It&#39;s really only $135,000.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I think you&#39;re wrong.&quot; said Parker,
&quot;but I&#39;ll split the difference with you and
call it $157.500.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Good heavens!&quot; exclaimed Marion.
&quot;Don&#39;t they keep any record?”</p>
<p>&quot;Just in their heads,&quot; said Mrs. Hart.</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; said Hart. &quot;Make it $157,500,
and that&#39;s giving you all the best of
it. You must have forgot the $25,000 you
laid me on the Harvard crew against
Yale. Anyway, making you a present of
the $45,000 or $25,000 or $22,500 or whatever
it is, you still owe me $240,000.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean, I owe you!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I mean since we began betting, in
1911.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You know that ain&#39;t right. You owe
me, not I owe you. And what you owe
me is about $200,000 even. If that ain&#39;t
so, when you asked me what I figured you
owed me and I asked you if you meant
this season or altogether, why didn&#39;t you
speak up and say that you naturally
meant just this season, because altogether
I owed you, not you owed me?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I didn&#39;t put it that way.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What way?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Whatever way you claim I put it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Do you still claim I owe you $240,000?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I certainly do!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, let&#39;s go back and I&#39;ll show you
how wrong you are. In 1911, I bet you
$100,000 Yale wouldn&#39;t score in the Harvard
game, and they didn&#39;t.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Neither did Harvard.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s got nothing to do with it. But
that was the first bet we made, and that
starts me off $100,000 to the good.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You don&#39;t have to go back that far.
We figured it up in the fall of 1918 and
agreed that you then owed me $185,000.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;And in 1919, I beat you for $225,000
at golf and cards and $65,000 on the
World&#39;s Series.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Do you mean to say you&#39;re going to
hold me to a bet on a crooked series?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right. We&#39;ll throw out the
$65,000. That still leaves you $40,000 to
the bad going into the year 1920.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, and in 1920 I won $150,000 from
you in golf and bridge and $40,000 that
Lowden wouldn&#39;t be nominated.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But you bet me $80,000 that Brooklyn
would beat Cleveland and you lost that.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That still gives me a margin of
$70,000 at the start of 1921.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Wait a minute!&quot; said Parker. &quot;If I
remember right, we totaled it up two
years ago and you owed me just an even
$20,000. And that was before I bet you
$150,000 on Tooney against Dempsey. So
I was $170,000 up on you a year ago last
spring, but that summer you cut it down
to $42,500 and with the $157,500 I win
from you this year, that makes it $200,000,
just as I said in the first place.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>&quot;I suppose you don&#39;t count the $300,000
you bet me on the Argentines.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;When did I bet you that?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;In August. You were tight, but Jack
will bear witness you made the bet and
you said next morning that it went. Ain&#39;t
I right, Jack?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;He bet you,&quot; said Jack, &quot;but I thought
it was $150,000 instead of $300,000.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll concede it,&quot; said Parker, &quot;and if
it&#39;s true, that makes us so close to even
that we might as well start all over.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Even my foot!&quot; objected Hart. “You
either owe me $240,000⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Or else,&quot; interrupted Parker, “you owe
me $200,000. Now which is it?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, there&#39;s no use discussing it to-night.
Let&#39;s get down to business.&quot;</p>
<p>As they rose from the table Walter
called Jack Bowen aside.</p>
<p>&quot;Does this mean that they have been
making those bets for seventeen years
and no money has ever changed hands?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m afraid it does,&quot; said Jack.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Walter, &quot;before this night
is over, I&#39;m going to be even with everybody.&quot;</p>
<p>When he and Marion had reached their
home at three o&#39;clock and Marion had
reported a loss, on the night&#39;s play, of
only two dollars, Walter triumphantly
told her how he not only had wiped out
the debt the others owed to her and to
himself, but had actually finished $8,400
to the good.</p>
<p>&quot;You see,&quot; he explained, &quot;after listening
to that argument, I decided to do a
little plunging of my own. I announced
I was playing for five dollars a point
and I lost twenty-eight hundred. Then
I said to Parker, &#39;If you&#39;ll give me 2 to 1,
or $5,600 against $2,800, I&#39;ll bet you I can
cut a spade.&#39; He took me and I cut a
diamond.</p>
<p>&quot;Then I bet Hart $5,600 to $2,800 that
he couldn&#39;t cut a spade, and he did. The
first $2,800, that I lost at bridge, squared
their previous indebtedness. And the
$8,400 I lost afterwards is clear profit.&quot;</p>
<p>Marion didn&#39;t quite understand. In
fact, she was too sleepy to try.</p>
