<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>“In Conference”</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="in-conference" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">“In Conference”</h2>
			<p>Harvey Hester entered the outer office of Kramer &amp; Company, Efficiency Engineers. He approached the girl at the desk.</p>
			<p>“I want to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing,” he said.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. M.</abbr> or <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr>?” inquired the girl.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr> Lansing,” Hester replied.</p>
			<p>“What is your name?”</p>
			<p>“Harvey Hester.”</p>
			<p>The girl pressed a button and wrote something on a slip of paper. A boy appeared. She gave him the paper.</p>
			<p>“For <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr> Lansing,” she said.</p>
			<p>The boy went away. Presently a young lady in mannish attire came out.</p>
			<p>“I am <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing’s secretary,” she said. “Did you want to see him personally?”</p>
			<p>“I did and do,” said Hester.</p>
			<p>“Well, just now he’s in conference,” said the secretary. “Perhaps you would like to wait.”</p>
			<p>“Listen. This is pretty important⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry, but it’s against the rules to disturb any of the officers in conference.”</p>
			<p>“How long will the conference last?”</p>
			<p>“It’s hard to say,” replied the secretary. “They just got through one conference and they’re beginning another. It may be ten minutes and it may be an hour.”</p>
			<p>“But listen⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry, but there’s nothing for you to do but call again, or else wait.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll wait,” snapped Hester, “but I won’t wait long!”</p>
			<p>The conferees were sitting around the big table in the conference room. At the head of the table was <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. H.</abbr> Carlisle, president of the firm.</p>
			<p>“Where is <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr>?” he inquired crossly. “This is the fifth conference he’s been late to this morning. And we’ve had only six.”</p>
			<p>“Well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr>,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R. L.</abbr> Jamieson, a vice-president, “I don’t think we ought to wait for him. If we drag along this way we won’t be able to get in a dozen conferences all day. And a dozen was the absolute minimum agreed on.”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R. L.</abbr>,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr> Dewey, another vice-president, “but it happens that <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr> is the one that asked for this conference, and he’s the only one that knows what it’s about. So we’d⁠—”</p>
			<p>At this moment the door opened and the tardy one entered. He was <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr> Croft, one of the vice-presidents.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry to be late,” he apologized, addressing <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr></p>
			<p>“I was talking over the phone to <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. P.</abbr> The reason I asked for this conference,” he continued, “was to get your thought on a proposition that came up about twenty minutes ago. There was a postcard in the mail addressed to the firm. It was from the main post-office. It says they are holding a letter for us which reached them unstamped. If we sign the card and send it to them, together with a two-cent stamp, they will forward us the letter. Otherwise they will send it to the Dead Letter Office. The question is, Is the letter worth the time and expense of sending for it?”</p>
			<p>“Who is the letter from, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr>?” The inquirer was <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels, one of the vice-presidents.</p>
			<p>“The card didn’t say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr>,” replied Croft.</p>
			<p>“My suggestion, <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr> and gentlemen,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. M.</abbr> Lansing, a vice-president, “is to write to whoever is in charge of that office, authorize him to open the letter, see who it’s from and what it’s about, and if he thinks it important, to let us know, and then we can mail the required stamp.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a mighty ticklish business, gentlemen,” ventured Vice-President <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. W.</abbr> Havers. “I have a brother, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">G. K.</abbr> Havers. He’s a pharmaceutical dispenser at a drug store on upper Broadway. He received a card like this from a branch post-office. He signed the card and sent the stamp, and the letter turned out to be nothing but advertising matter from a realtor.”</p>
			<p>“Why, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. W.</abbr>,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr> Lansing, “you never told any one of us you had a brother.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr>,” replied Havers. “I’ve got two other brothers besides <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">G. K.</abbr> One of them, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">N. D.</abbr>, is a mortuary artisan and the other, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">V. F.</abbr>, is a garbage practitioner in Harrisburg.”</p>
			<p>“I’m one of a family of seven boys,” put in Vice-President <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B. B.</abbr> Nordyke.</p>
			<p>“I was born in Michigan,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">H. J.</abbr> Milton, the firm’s secretary, “in a little bit of town called Watervliet.”</p>
			<p>“I’m a Yankee myself,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels, “born and raised in Hingham, Massachusetts.”</p>
			<p>“How far is that from North Attleboro?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr> Dewey.</p>
			<p>“It’s right near Boston, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr>,” answered <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> “It’s a suburb of Boston.”</p>
			<p>“Philadelphia has some mighty pretty suburbs,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. M.</abbr> Lansing. “Don’t you think so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R. L.</abbr>?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t been there for fifteen years, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. M.</abbr>,” replied <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R. L.</abbr> Jamieson. “Last time I was there was in 1909.”</p>
			<p>“That was fifteen years ago, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">R. L.</abbr>,” remarked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. W.</abbr> Havers.</p>
			<p>“That’s what I say, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. W.</abbr>, fifteen years,” said Jamieson.</p>
			<p>“I thought you said fourteen years,” rejoined Havers.</p>
			<p>“Let’s see,” put in <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C. T.</abbr> Miller, treasurer of the firm. “Where was I fifteen years ago? Oh, yes, I was a bibliopolistic actuary in southern Ohio. I was selling Balzac complete for twenty-six dollars.”</p>
			<p>“Did you read Jimmie Montague’s poem in the Record this morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Z. H.</abbr>?” inquired <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. X.</abbr> Murphy of <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Z. H.</abbr> Holt.</p>
			<p>“No, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F. X.</abbr>,” replied Holt. “I don’t go in for that highbrow stuff and anyways, when I get through my day’s work here, I’m too tired to read.”</p>
			<p>“What do you do with yourself evenings, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Z. H.</abbr>?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr>, the younger of the Lansings.</p>
			<p>“Oh, maybe play the player piano or go to a movie or go to bed,” said Holt.</p>
			<p>“I bet there’s none of you spends your evenings like I do,” said young Lansing. “Right after dinner, the wife and I sit down in the living room and I tell her everything that I’ve done down here during the day.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t she get bored?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels.</p>
			<p>“I should say not, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr>!” replied young Lansing. “She loves it!”</p>
			<p>“My sister Minnie⁠—she married <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. F.</abbr> Wilcox, the tire people⁠—she was over to the house last night,” announced <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr> Croft. “She was reading us a poem by this Amy Leslie, the woman that got up this free verse. I couldn’t make much out of it.”</p>
			<p>“Gentlemen,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr> at this juncture, “have you any more suggestions in regards to this unstamped letter? How about you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Z. H.</abbr>?” he added, turning to Holt.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll tell you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr>,” replied Holt, “a thing like this has got to be handled mighty careful. It may be all right, and it may be a hoax, and it may be out and out blackmail. I remember a somewhat similar case that occurred in my home town, Marengo, Illinois.”</p>
			<p>“Did you know the Lundgrens there?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr> Croft.</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr>,” answered Holt. “I used to go into Chicago to see Carl pitch. He was quite a card player, too. But this case I speak of, why, it seems that <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. W.</abbr> Kline⁠—he was a grass truncater around town⁠—why, he received an anonymous postcard with no name signed to it. It didn’t even say who it was from. All it said was that if he would be at a certain corner at a certain hour on a certain day, he would find out something that he’d like to know.”</p>
			<p>“What?” interrupted the elder Lansing.</p>
			<p>“I was saying,” said Holt, “that in my home town, Marengo, Illinois, there was a man named <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. W.</abbr> Kline who got an anonymous postcard with no name signed to it, and it said that if he would be at a certain corner at a certain hour on a certain day, he would find out something that he’d like to know.”</p>
			<p>“What?” repeated the elder Lansing.</p>
			<p>“Never mind, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Z. H.</abbr>,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr> “Tell us what happened.”</p>
			<p>“Nothing,” said Holt. “Kline never went near the place.”</p>
			<p>“That reminds me,” put in <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr> Dewey, “of a funny thing that came off in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Louis. That’s when I was with the <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P. D.</abbr> advertising department. One afternoon the postman brought the mail to our house and my wife looked it over and found a letter addressed to some name like Jennings or Galt or something like that. It wasn’t for us at all. So she laid for the postman next day and gave him back the letter. She said, ‘Look here, here’s a letter that don’t belong to us at all. It’s for somebody else.’ I forget now just what the name was. Anyway, he took the letter and I guess he delivered it to the right people.”</p>
			<p>“I got some pretty good Scotch myself for fifty-six dollars a case,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels. “It’s old James Buchanan.”</p>
			<p>“Where did you get it, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr>?” inquired Paul Sickles.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got the phone number home,” replied Daniels. “I’ll bring it to you tomorrow, Paul.”</p>
			<p>Sickles was the only man in the outfit who was not an officer, so they called him Paul instead of by his initials.</p>
			<p>“Prohibition’s a joke!” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. W.</abbr> Havers.</p>
			<p>“People drink now’days that never drank before,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels.</p>
			<p>“Even nice women are drinking,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L. M.</abbr> Croft.</p>
			<p>“I think you’ll see light wines and beer before it’s over,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr> Dewey.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. H. C.</abbr> spoke again.</p>
			<p>“But what about this letter?”</p>
			<p>“It seems funny to me,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr> Lansing, “that the people in the post-office don’t open it and find out what it’s all about. Why, my wife opens my personal mail, and when I’m home I open hers.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t she care?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr> Daniels.</p>
			<p>“No, <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S. P.</abbr>,” said the younger Lansing. “She thinks everything I do is all right.”</p>
			<p>“My wife got a letter last week with no stamp on it at all,” said Sickles. “The stamp must have dropped off. All it was anyways was a circular about mah jongg sets.”</p>
			<p>“Do you play with flowers, Paul?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K. M.</abbr> Dewey.</p>
			<p>“Why⁠—”</p>
			<p>Harvey Hester, in the outer office, looked at his watch for the twentieth time; then got up and went to the girl at the desk.</p>
			<p>“Please have <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing’s secretary come out here again,” he said.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. M.</abbr> or <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr>?” asked the girl.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A. T.</abbr>,” said Hester.</p>
			<p>The secretary came out.</p>
			<p>“Listen,” said Hester. “If I can’t see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing right this minute it’ll be too late.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry, but I can’t interrupt him when he’s in conference.”</p>
			<p>“All right,” said Hester. “Will you please give him this message? You’ve got my name. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing and I were in school together and were more or less friendly. Well, I was tipped off this morning⁠—I don’t need to tell you how⁠—I was tipped off that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lansing is leaving for Chicago on the 12:05 train. And she isn’t leaving alone. She’s eloping. I thought <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lansing might want to try to stop her.”</p>
			<p>“What time is it now?”</p>
			<p>“Seven minutes of twelve,” said Hester. “He can just make it.”</p>
			<p>“But he’s still in conference,” said the secretary.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
