<p class='pindent'>Tom and Grace Carter sat in their living-room on Christmas Eve,
sometimes talking, sometimes pretending to read and all the time
thinking things they didn’t want to think. Their two children,
Junior, aged nineteen, and Grace, two years younger, had come
home that day from their schools for the Christmas vacation. Junior
was in his first year at the university and Grace attending a
boarding-school that would fit her for college.</p>

<p class='pindent'>I won’t call them Grace and Junior any more, though that is
the way they had been christened. Junior had changed his name to
Ted and Grace was now Caroline, and thus they insisted on being
addressed, even by their parents. This was one of the things Tom
and Grace the elder were thinking of as they sat in their living-room
Christmas Eve.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Other university freshmen who had lived here had returned on
the twenty-first, the day when the vacation was supposed to begin.
Ted had telegraphed that he would be three days late owing to a
special examination which, if he passed it, would lighten the terrific
burden of the next term. He had arrived at home looking so
pale, heavy-eyed and shaky that his mother doubted the wisdom
of the concentrated mental effort, while his father secretly hoped
the stuff had been non-poisonous and would not have lasting effects.
Caroline, too, had been behind schedule, explaining that her
laundry had gone astray and she had not dared trust others to
trace it for her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Grace and Tom had attempted, with fair success, to conceal
their disappointment over this delayed home-coming and had continued
with their preparations for a Christmas that would thrill
their children and consequently themselves. They had bought an
imposing lot of presents, costing twice or three times as much as
had been Tom’s father’s annual income when Tom was Ted’s
age, or Tom’s own income a year ago, before General Motors’
acceptance of his new weather-proof paint had enabled him to
buy this suburban home and luxuries such as his own parents
and Grace’s had never dreamed of, and to give Ted and Caroline
advantages that he and Grace had perforce gone without.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Behind the closed door of the music-room was the elaborately
decked tree. The piano and piano bench and the floor around the
tree were covered with beribboned packages of all sizes, shapes and
weights, one of them addressed to Tom, another to Grace, a few to
the servants and the rest to Ted and Caroline. A huge box contained
a sealskin coat for Caroline, a coat that had cost as much
as the Carters had formerly paid a year for rent. Even more expensive
was a “set” of jewelry consisting of an opal brooch, a bracelet
of opals and gold filigree, and an opal ring surrounded by
diamonds.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Grace always had preferred opals to any other stone, but now
that she could afford them, some inhibition prevented her from
buying them for herself; she could enjoy them much more adorning
her pretty daughter. There were boxes of silk stockings, lingerie,
gloves and handkerchiefs. And for Ted, a three-hundred-dollar
watch, a de-luxe edition of Balzac, an expensive bag of
shiny, new steel-shafted golf-clubs and the last word in portable
phonographs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the big surprise for the boy was locked in the garage, a
black Gorham sedan, a model more up to date and better-looking
than Tom’s own year-old car that stood beside it. Ted could use
it during the vacation if the mild weather continued and could
look forward to driving it around home next spring and summer,
there being a rule at the university forbidding undergraduates
the possession or use of private automobiles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Every year for sixteen years, since Ted was three and Caroline
one, it had been the Christmas Eve custom of the Carter’s to
hang up their children’s stockings and fill them with inexpensive
toys. Tom and Grace had thought it would be fun to continue the
custom this year; the contents of the stockings—a mechanical
negro dancing doll, music-boxes, a kitten that meowed when you
pressed a spot on her back, et cetera—would make the “kids”
laugh. And one of Grace’s first pronouncements to her returned
offspring was that they must go to bed early so Santa Claus would
not be frightened away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But it seemed they couldn’t promise to make it so terribly early.
They both had long-standing dates in town. Caroline was going
to dinner and a play with Beatrice Murdock and Beatrice’s nineteen-year-old
brother Paul. The latter would call for her in his
car at half past six. Ted had accepted an invitation to see the
hockey match with two classmates, Herb Castle and Bernard King.
He wanted to take his father’s Gorham, but Tom told him untruthfully
that the foot-brake was not working; Ted must be kept
out of the garage till tomorrow morning.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Ted and Caroline had taken naps in the afternoon and gone off
together in Paul Murdock’s stylish roadster, giving their word
that they would be back by midnight or a little later and that tomorrow
night they would stay home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>And now their mother and father were sitting up for them, because
the stockings could not be filled and hung till they were
safely in bed, and also because trying to go to sleep is a painful
and hopeless business when you are kind of jumpy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What time is it?” asked Grace, looking up from the third
page of a book that she had begun to “read” soon after dinner.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Half past two,” said her husband. (He had answered the same
question every fifteen or twenty minutes since midnight.)</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You don’t suppose anything could have happened?” said
Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’d have heard if there had,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It isn’t likely, of course,” said Grace, “but they might have
had an accident some place where nobody was there to report it or
telephone or anything. We don’t know what kind of a driver the
Murdock boy is.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s Ted’s age. Boys that age may be inclined to drive too
fast, but they drive pretty well.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do you know?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’ve watched some of them drive.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, but not all of them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I doubt whether anybody in the world has seen every nineteen-year-old
boy drive.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Boys these days seem so kind of irresponsible.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, don’t worry! They probably met some of their young
friends and stopped for a bite to eat or something.” Tom got up
and walked to the window with studied carelessness. “It’s a
pretty night,” he said. “You can see every star in the sky.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he wasn’t looking at the stars. He was looking down the
road for headlights. There were none in sight and after a few moments
he returned to his chair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What time is it?” asked Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Twenty-two of,” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of what?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of three.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Your watch must have stopped. Nearly an hour ago you told
me it was half past two.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My watch is all right. You probably dozed off.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I haven’t closed my eyes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it’s time you did. Why don’t you go to bed?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why don’t <span class='it'>you</span>?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not sleepy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Neither am I. But honestly, Tom, it’s silly for you to stay
up. I’m just doing it so I can fix the stockings, and because I
feel so wakeful. But there’s no use of your losing your sleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I couldn’t sleep a wink till they’re home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s foolishness! There’s nothing to worry about. They’re
just having a good time. You were young once yourself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s just it! When I was young, I was young.” He picked
up his paper and tried to get interested in the shipping news.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What time is it?” asked Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Five minutes of three.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe they’re staying at the Murdocks’ all night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’d have let us know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They were afraid to wake us up, telephoning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At three-twenty a car stopped at the front gate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There they are!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I told you there was nothing to worry about.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom went to the window. He could just discern the outlines
of the Murdock boy’s roadster, whose lighting system seemed to
have broken down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He hasn’t any lights,” said Tom. “Maybe I’d better go out
and see if I can fix them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, don’t!” said Grace sharply. “He can fix them himself.
He’s just saving them while he stands still.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why don’t they come in?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re probably making plans.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They can make them in here. I’ll go out and tell them we’re
still up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, don’t!” said Grace as before, and Tom obediently remained
at the window.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was nearly four when the car lights flashed on and the car
drove away. Caroline walked into the house and stared dazedly at
her parents.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Heavens! What are you doing up?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom was about to say something, but Grace forestalled him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We were talking over old Christmases,” she said. “Is it very
late?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I haven’t any idea,” said Caroline.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is Ted?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t he home? I haven’t seen him since we dropped him at
the hockey place.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, you go right to bed,” said her mother. “You must be
worn out.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I am, kind of. We danced after the play. What time is breakfast?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Eight o’clock.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mother, can’t you make it nine?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess so. You used to want to get up early on Christmas.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, but——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who brought you home?” asked Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, Paul Murdock—and Beatrice.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You look rumpled.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They made me sit in the ‘rumple’ seat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She laughed at her joke, said good night and went upstairs.
She had not come even within hand-shaking distance of her father
and mother.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Murdocks,” said Tom, “must have great manners, making
their guest ride in that uncomfortable seat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Grace was silent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You go to bed, too,” said Tom. “I’ll wait for Ted.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You couldn’t fix the stockings.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I won’t try. We’ll have time for that in the morning; I mean,
later in the morning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not going to bed till you do,” said Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, we’ll both go. Ted ought not to be long now. I
suppose his friends will bring him home. We’ll hear him when
he comes in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no chance not to hear him when, at ten minutes before
six, he came in. He had done his Christmas shopping late
and brought home a package.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Grace was downstairs again at half past seven, telling the servants
breakfast would be postponed till nine. She nailed the
stockings beside the fireplace, went into the music-room to see that
nothing had been disturbed and removed Ted’s hat and overcoat
from where he had carefully hung them on the hall floor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom appeared a little before nine and suggested that the children
ought to be awakened.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll wake them,” said Grace, and went upstairs. She opened
Ted’s door, looked, and softly closed it again. She entered her
daughter’s room and found Caroline semiconscious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do I have to get up now? Honestly I can’t eat anything. If
you could just have Molla bring me some coffee. Ted and I are
both invited to the Murdock’s for breakfast at half past twelve,
and I could sleep for another hour or two.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But dearie, don’t you know we have Christmas dinner at one?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a shame, Mother, but I thought of course our dinner would
be at night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you want to see your presents?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Certainly I do, but can’t they wait?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Grace was about to go to the kitchen to tell the cook that dinner
would be at seven instead of one, but she remembered having
promised Signe the afternoon and evening off, as a cold, light supper
would be all anyone wanted after the heavy midday meal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom and Grace breakfasted alone and once more sat in the living-room,
talking, thinking and pretending to read.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You ought to speak to Caroline,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I will, but not today. It’s Christmas.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I intend to say a few words to Ted.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, dear, you must. But not today.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose they’ll be out again tonight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, they promised to stay home. We’ll have a nice cozy evening.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t bet too much on that,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At noon the “children” made their entrance and responded to
their parents’ salutations with almost the proper warmth. Ted
declined a cup of coffee and he and Caroline apologized for making
a “breakfast” date at the Murdocks’.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sis and I both thought you’d be having dinner at seven, as
usual.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve always had it at one o’clock on Christmas,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d forgotten it was Christmas,” said Ted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, those stockings ought to remind you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Ted and Caroline looked at the bulging stockings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t there a tree?” asked Caroline.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course,” said her mother. “But the stockings come first.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve only a little time,” said Caroline. “We’ll be terribly
late as it is. So can’t we see the tree now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess so,” said Grace, and led the way into the music-room.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The servants were summoned and the tree stared at and admired.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You must open your presents,” said Grace to her daughter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t open them all now,” said Caroline. “Tell me which
is special.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The cover was removed from the huge box and Grace held up
the coat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mother!” said Caroline. “A sealskin coat!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Put it on,” said her father.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not now. We haven’t time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then look at this!” said Grace, and opened the case of jewels.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mother! Opals!” said Caroline.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re my favorite stone,” said Grace quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If nobody minds,” said Ted, “I’ll postpone my personal investigation
till we get back. I know I’ll like everything you’ve given
me. But if we have no car in working order, I’ve got to call a
taxi and catch a train.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You can drive in,” said his father.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you fix the brake?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think it’s all right. Come up to the garage and we’ll see.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Ted got his hat and coat and kissed his mother good-by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mother,” he said, “I know you’ll forgive me for not having
any presents for you and Dad. I was so rushed the last three days
at school. And I thought I’d have time to shop a little when we got
in yesterday, but I was in too much of a hurry to be home. Last
night, everything was closed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t worry,” said Grace. “Christmas is for young people.
Dad and I have everything we want.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The servants had found their gifts and disappeared, expressing
effusive Scandinavian thanks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Caroline and her mother were left alone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mother, where did the coat come from?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lloyd and Henry’s.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They keep all kinds of furs, don’t they?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Would you mind horribly if I exchanged this?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Certainly not, dear. You pick out anything you like, and if
it’s a little more expensive, it won’t make any difference. We can
go in town tomorrow or next day. But don’t you want to wear
your opals to the Murdocks’?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t believe so. They might get lost or something. And I’m
not—well, I’m not so crazy about——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think they can be exchanged, too,” said Grace. “You run
along now and get ready to start.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Caroline obeyed with alacrity, and Grace spent a welcome moment
by herself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom opened the garage door.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, you’ve got two cars!” said Ted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The new one isn’t mine,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Whose is it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yours. It’s the new model.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dad, that’s wonderful! But it looks just like the old one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, the old one’s pretty good. Just the same, yours is better.
You’ll find that out when you drive it. Hop in and get started.
I had her filled with gas.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think I’d rather drive the old one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, what I really wanted, Dad, was a Barnes sport roadster,
something like Paul Murdock’s, only a different color scheme.
And if I don’t drive this Gorham at all, maybe you could get them
to take it back or make some kind of a deal with the Barnes
people.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom didn’t speak till he was sure of his voice. Then: “All
right, son. Take my car and I’ll see what can be done about yours.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Caroline, waiting for Ted, remembered something and called
to her mother. “Here’s what I got for you and Dad,” she said.
“It’s two tickets to ‘Jolly Jane,’ the play I saw last night. You’ll
love it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When are they for?” asked Grace.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tonight,” said Caroline.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But dearie,” said her mother, “we don’t want to go out tonight,
when you promised to stay home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll keep our promise,” said Caroline, “but the Murdocks
may drop in and bring some friends and we’ll dance and there’ll
be music. And Ted and I both thought you’d rather be away somewhere
so our noise wouldn’t disturb you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was sweet of you to do this,” said her mother, “but your father
and I don’t mind noise as long as you’re enjoying yourselves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s time anyway that you and Dad had a treat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The real treat,” said Grace, “would be to spend a quiet evening
here with just you two.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Murdocks practically invited themselves and I couldn’t
say no after they’d been so nice to me. And honestly, Mother,
you’ll love this play!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Will you be home for supper?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m pretty sure we will, but if we’re a little late, don’t you and
Dad wait for us. Take the seven-twenty so you won’t miss anything.
The first act is really the best. We probably won’t be hungry,
but have Signe leave something out for us in case we are.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom and Grace sat down to the elaborate Christmas dinner and
didn’t make much impression on it. Even if they had had any
appetite, the sixteen-pound turkey would have looked almost like
new when they had eaten their fill. Conversation was intermittent
and related chiefly to Signe’s excellence as a cook and the mildness
of the weather. Children and Christmas were barely touched on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom merely suggested that on account of its being a holiday
and their having theatre tickets, they ought to take the six-ten and
eat supper at the Metropole. His wife said no; Ted and Caroline
might come home and be disappointed at not finding them. Tom
seemed about to make some remark, but changed his mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The afternoon was the longest Grace had ever known. The
children were still absent at seven and she and Tom taxied to the
train. Neither talked much on the way to town. As for the play,
which Grace was sure to love, it turned out to be a rehash of
“Cradle Snatchers” and “Sex,” retaining the worst features of
each.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When it was over, Tom said: “Now I’m inviting you to the Cove
Club. You didn’t eat any breakfast or dinner or supper and I
can’t have you starving to death on a feast-day. Besides, I’m
thirsty as well as hungry.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They ordered the special <span class='it'>table d’hôte</span> and struggled hard to get
away with it. Tom drank six high-balls, but they failed to produce
the usual effect of making him jovial. Grace had one high-ball
and some kind of cordial that gave her a warm, contented
feeling for a moment. But the warmth and contentment left her
before the train was half way home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The living-room looked as if Von Kluck’s army had just passed
through. Ted and Caroline had kept their promise up to a certain
point. They had spent part of the evening at home, and the Murdocks
must have brought all their own friends and everybody else’s,
judging from the results. The tables and floors were strewn with
empty glasses, ashes and cigaret stubs. The stockings had been
torn off their nails and the wrecked contents were all over the
place. Two sizable holes had been burnt in Grace’s favorite rug.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom took his wife by the arm and led her into the music-room.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You never took the trouble to open your own present,” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I think there’s one for you, too,” said Grace. “They
didn’t come in here,” she added, “so I guess there wasn’t much
dancing or music.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tom found his gift from Grace, a set of diamond studs and cuff
buttons for festive wear. Grace’s present from him was an opal
ring.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Tom!” she said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have to go out somewhere tomorrow night, so I can break
these in,” said Tom.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if we do that, we’d better get a good night’s rest.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll beat you upstairs,” said Tom.</p>