<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Reunion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="reunion" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reunion</h2>

<p class='pindent'>This is one about a brother and sister and the sister’s husband
and the brother’s wife. The sister’s name was Rita Mason Johnston;
she was married to Stuart Johnston, whose intimates called
him Stu, which was appropriate only on special occasions. The
brother was Bob Mason, originally and recently from Buchanan,
Michigan, and in between whiles a respected resident of Los Angeles.
His wife was a woman he had found in San Bernardino
and married for some reason.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rita had been named after a Philadelphia aunt with money.
The flattered aunt had made Rita’s mother bring Rita east for a
visit when the child was three or four. After that, until she met
Stu, she had spent two-thirds of her time with her aunt or at
schools of her aunt’s choosing. Her brother Bob, in bad health
at fourteen, had gone to California to live with cousins or something.
He had visited home only three times in nearly twenty
years, and not once while Rita was there. So he and Rita hardly
knew each other, you might say.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Johnston and Rita had become acquainted at a party following
a Cornell-Pennsylvania football game. Johnston’s people were
decent and well-off, and Rita’s aunt had encouraged the romance,
which resulted in a wedding and a comfortable home at Sands
Point, Long Island.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bob Mason had first worked for a cousin in a Los Angeles real
estate office, then had gone into business for himself, and finally
saved enough to bring his wife to the old Michigan homestead,
which had been left him by his father.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He and Jennie were perfectly satisfied with small-town life.
Once in a while they visited Chicago, less than a hundred miles
away, or drove up the lake shore or down into Indiana in Bob’s
two-thousand-dollar automobile. In the past year they had been
to Chicago three times and had attended three performances of
Abie’s Irish Rose. It was the best play ever played; better, even,
than Lightnin’.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I honestly think we ought to do something about Rita,” said
Jennie to Bob one June day. “Imagine a person not seeing their
own sister in nearly twenty years!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d love to see her,” replied Bob, “and I wish you’d write her
a letter. She don’t pay no attention to mine. I’ve asked her time
and time again to come out here and stay as long as she likes, but
she hasn’t even answered.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Jennie, “I’ll write to her, although she still owes
me a letter from last Christmas.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stu,” said Rita to her husband, “we’ve simply got to do something
about Bob and his wife. Heaven knows how many times
he’s asked us to go out there and visit and now here is a letter from
Jennie, inviting us again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, why don’t you go? You’d enjoy it, seeing the old home
and the people you used to play around with. I’d go along, but I
haven’t the time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Time! You have time to go to the Water Gap or up to Manchester
for golf every two or three weeks. As for me wanting to
see the old home, you know that’s silly!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we won’t argue about it, but I’m certainly not going to
waste my vacation in any hick town where they’ve probably got a
six-hole course that you have to putt on with a niblick! Why
can’t they come here?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t suppose they could, but if you want me to, I’ll ask
them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Suit yourself. It’s your brother.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Bob Masons boarded The Wolverine at the near-by metropolis
of Niles and got off some twenty hours later in New York’s
Grand Central Station. Compared with the jump from California
to Michigan, it seemed like once around on a roller coaster.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rita met them and identified Bob by the initials on his suitcase.
He wouldn’t have known her. She was the same age as
Jennie, thirty-five, and he had expected her to look it. Instead,
she looked ten years younger and was prettier than a member of
the Buchanan Mason family had any right to be. And what
clothes! Like those of the movie gals who had infested his Los
Angeles.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, sis, are you sure it’s you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Am I changed?” she said, laughing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not as much as you ought to be,” replied Bob. “That’s what
makes it so hard to recognize you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, <span class='it'>you’ve</span> changed,” said Rita. “Let’s see—it’s twenty
years, isn’t it? You were fourteen and naturally you didn’t have
that mustache. But even if you were clean shaven, you wouldn’t
be a bit like the Bob I remember. And this is Jennie,” she added.
“Well!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” admitted Bob’s wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She smiled and Rita noticed her teeth for the first time. Most
of the visible ones were of gold, and the work had evidently been
done by a dentist for whom three members of a foursome were
waiting. Rita, Bob, and Bob’s wife, escorted by a red cap, walked
through the Biltmore and across Forty-third Street to where Gates
was parked with Rita’s sedan. Gates observed the newcomers as
he relieved the red cap of their meager baggage. “Sears, Roebuck,”
he said to himself, for he had lived in Janesville, Wisconsin.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, we forgot to see about your trunks!” exclaimed Rita when
the car had started.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We didn’t bring no trunks,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can only stay two weeks,” said his wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That seems like an awfully short visit,” Rita said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, but Bob don’t feel like he can stay away from the garden
this time of year. We left old Jimmy Preston to take care of
it, but nobody can be trusted to tend to another person’s garden
like you would yourself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Does the place look just the same?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I should say not! It was in terrible condition when he first
came East.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Came East?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I mean, to Michigan. But Bob spent—— How much did
you spend fixing things up, Bob, about?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Over two thousand dollars,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought it was nearer twenty-one or twenty-two hundred,”
said his wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, somewhere over two thousand.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was more than two thousand,” insisted his wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look out!” yelled Bob, and the two women jumped.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were on the Fifty-ninth Street bridge and Gates was
worming his way through the myriad trucks and funerals that
prevail on that structure at 11 <span class='sc'>a. m.</span></p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the matter? You scared me to death!” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought we was going to hit that Reo,” Bob explained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bob’s a nervous wreck when anybody else is driving,” apologized
Jennie. “I often think a person who drives themselves is
more liable to be nervous when somebody else is driving.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess that’s true,” agreed Rita, and reflected that she had
heard this theory expounded before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I do believe,” continued Jennie, “that Bob is just about
the best driver in the world, and that’s not because he’s my husband,
either.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>This remark caused Gates to turn around suddenly and look the
speaker in the eye, and the sedan missed another Reo by a flea’s
upper lip.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The road leading from New York to the towns on Long Island’s
north shore is, for the most part, as scenically attractive as an incinerating
plant. Nevertheless, Jennie kept saying “How beautiful!”
and asking Rita who were the owners of various places
which looked as if they had been disowned these many years. Bob
was too nervous to make any effort to talk and Rita sighed with
relief when the drive was over.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll show you your room,” she said, “and then you can rest till
lunch. Stu is in the city and won’t be home till dinner. But he
only goes in once or twice a week, and he said he would arrange not
to go at all while you’re here, so he’d have plenty of time to visit.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Jennie was impressed with the luxurious guest room and its
outlook on the Sound, but Bob had slept badly on the train and
dozed off while she was still marveling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t suppose you feel like doing much this afternoon,” said
Rita when lunch was over. “Maybe we’d better just loaf. I
imagine that tomorrow and the rest of the week will be pretty
strenuous. Stu has all kinds of plans.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So they loafed, and Jennie and Rita took naps, and Bob walked
around the yard and plotted the changes he would make in it if
it were his.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Seven o’clock brought Stu, who was introduced to the in-laws
and then ordered to his room to make himself presentable for dinner.
Rita followed him upstairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well?” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not sure yet,” said Rita, “but I’m kind of afraid——
Bob is awfully quiet and I guess she’s embarrassed to death. I
hope they’ve brought some other clothes, but then I don’t
know—— A change might be for the worse, though it doesn’t
seem possible.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Does she think,” asked Stu, “that just because she’s from the
Golden State she has to run around with a mouthful of nuggets?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s all right when she doesn’t smile. You mustn’t say anything
what will make her smile.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s going to be tough,” said Stu. “You know what I am
when I get started!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And another thing I just thought of,” said Rita. “He didn’t
bring any golf clubs.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, that doesn’t matter. I can fit him out.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The host and hostess joined their guests on the porch. A Swedish
girl served cocktails.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are these—is it liquor?” asked Jennie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just Bacardi, and they’re awfully mild,” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But Bob and I don’t indulge at all,” said Jennie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This wouldn’t be indulging,” urged Stu. “This is practically
a soft drink.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know, but it would be violating the letter of the law,” said
Jennie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Rita and Stu drank alone and the four moved in to dinner.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What time do you get up, Bob?” asked the host, at table.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Six o’clock, in the summer,” replied his brother-in-law.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, well, there’s no need of that! But it would be nice if we
could get through breakfast tomorrow at, say, nine o’clock. I’m
going to take you to Piping Rock. We’ll make a day of it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’ll be fine,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you go around in?” inquired his brother-in-law.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve got a 1924 Studebaker,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, no,” said Stu. “I mean your golf game.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Me? I haven’t any golf game. I never played golf in my
life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Stu’s expression would have made Rita laugh if she hadn’t felt
so sorry for him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bob can’t see anything in golf,” explained Jennie. “He says
it’s a sissy game. I tell him he ought to try it some time and he
might change his mind. Why don’t you try it while you’re here,
Bob? Maybe Stuart would show you the fine points.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The host seemed not to have heard this suggestion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They have got a links near Buchanan, between Buchanan and
Niles,” said Bob, “but they charge fifty dollars to join and thirty-five
dollars annual dues. That seems exorbitant.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s an outrage!” is what Stu was going to say, but Rita
shook her head at him. “I think you’d find it was worth the
money,” is what he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lots of our friends play,” said Jennie. “Some of the nicest
people in both Niles and Buchanan belong to the club, so it can’t
be as silly as Bob thinks. But he gets an idear in his head and you
can’t change him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s on tonight?” asked Stu as the dessert was served.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Rita, “I thought these people would want to get
to bed early after their trip, so we won’t go anywhere. We might
have a little bridge. Do you feel like bridge, Jennie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m awfully sorry, but neither Bob or I play. I know it must
be a wonderful game and some of our best friends play it a great
deal, but somehow or other, Bob and I just never took it up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>This was a terrific blow to Rita, who counted that day lost
which was without its twenty or thirty rubbers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You miss something,” she said with remarkable self-control.
“Shall we have our coffee on the porch? I think it’s pleasanter.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you smoke, Bob? Cigars or cigarettes?” inquired
the host.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Neither, thanks,” Bob replied. “I never cared for tobacco.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re lucky,” said Stu. “A cigarette, Jennie?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mercy! It would kill me! Even the smell of smoke makes
me dizzy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Stu and Rita evidently missed this statement for they proceeded
to light their cigarettes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is bridge hard to learn?” asked Jennie presently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not very,” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was wondering if maybe you and Stuart couldn’t teach it to
Bob and I. Then we could have some games while we’re here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Rita, “it’s—it’s a terribly hard game to learn,
that is, to play it right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You said it wasn’t,” put in Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it isn’t, if you don’t care—if you just—— But to learn
to play it right, it’s impossible!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you got a radio?” asked Bob. He pronounced the “a”
short, as in Buchanan.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m sorry to say we haven’t,” said Stu, who wasn’t sorry at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know how you get along without one,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We just live for ours!” said Jennie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it, an Atwater-Kent?” asked Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She had seen that name in some paper yesterday.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” replied Bob. “It’s a Ware Neutrodyne, with a Type X
receiver.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And an Ethovox horn,” added Jennie. “We had Omaha one
night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You did!” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a silence, which was broken by Bob’s asking his sister
how often she went to New York.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Only when I can’t help myself, when I simply have to get
something.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you never go to the theater?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, if it’s something especially good.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course,” said Jennie, “you’ve seen Abie’s Irish Rose?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Heavens, no!” said Rita. “Everybody says it’s terrible!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, it’s not terrible!” said Bob indignantly. “That is, if
you’ve got anywheres near as good a company here as they have in
Chicago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d like to see the New York company,” said Jennie, “and see
how they do compare.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>This met with no encouragement and another silence followed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, Bob,” said Stu at length, “you must do <span class='it'>something</span> for
exercise. How about a little tennis in the morning?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s another game I don’t play,” Bob replied. “As for exercise,
I get plenty of it fooling around the garden and monkeying
with the car.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then all I can suggest is that we put in the day fishing or
swimming or just riding around in the launch.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bob was silent, but his wife spoke up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You know, Stuart, Bob’s ashamed to admit it, but being on
the water makes him deathly sick, even if it’s as smooth as glass.
And he can’t swim.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bob didn’t seem to relish this topic and turned to his sister.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you remember the Allens in Buchanan, old Tom Allen and
his family?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Kind of.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you hear about Louise Allen running away and getting
married?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, she ran away with Doc Marshall and got married. And
at first old Tom was pretty near wild, but when Doc and Louise
came back, why one day Doc was walking along the street and old
Tom came along from the opposite direction and Doc spoke to him
and called him by name and old Tom looked at him and asked him
what he wanted, and Doc said he wanted to know if he’d forgave
him. So old Tom said, ‘Forgiven you! Have <span class='it'>you</span> forgiven <span class='it'>me</span>,
is the question.’ So Doc said, forgiven him for what, and old Tom
said, for not killing her when she was a baby. This put the laugh
on Doc and the boys have all been kidding him about it. I guess
you didn’t know Doc.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, I didn’t,” admitted Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Quite a card,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Jennie had picked up a book. “May Fair,” she read. “Is it
good?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said Rita. “It’s short stories by Michael Arlen; you
know, the man who wrote The Green Hat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A detective story?” asked Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, Michael Arlen. He was here last spring and we met him.
He’s awfully nice. He’s really an Armenian.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s an Armenian comes to Buchanan two or three times a
year,” said Jennie. “But he sells linen.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Upstairs, two or three hours later, Stu made a brief speech:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My God! He doesn’t play golf, he doesn’t play tennis, he
doesn’t play bridge, he doesn’t swim, fish, drink, or smoke. And
I’d arranged these two weeks for a kind of a vacation! Hell’s
bells!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the guest room Bob said:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I certainly miss the old radio.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said Jennie. “We’d be getting the Drake Hotel now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d like to see the New York company in Abie’s Irish Rose,”
said Jennie at breakfast next morning. “I’d like to compare
them with the companies that’s in Chicago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you see it in Chicago?” asked Stu.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Three times,” said Jennie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You must be sick of it,” said Stu.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I couldn’t get sick of it,” replied Jennie, “not if I saw it every
night in the year.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>After breakfast Bob tried to read the <span class='it'>Herald-Tribune</span>, the
<span class='it'>World</span>, and the <span class='it'>Times</span>, but couldn’t make head or tail of them.
He wished he had a copy of the Chi <span class='it'>Trib</span>, even if it was two or
three days old.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you go to pictures much?” inquired Jennie of her hostess.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hardly ever,” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re very fond of them,” said Jennie. “You know, we lived
in Los Angeles for a long time, and that’s right near Hollywood.
So we often saw different stars in person. And some friends of
ours knew Harold Lloyd and introduced us to him. You’d never
know him without those glasses. He’s really handsome! And
democratic!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is he running for?” asked Stu.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothing that I know of,” said Jennie. “Is he running for
anything, Bob?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think so,” said Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The morning dragged along and finally it was time for lunch
and Stu broke a precedent by having seven highballs with his meal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’ll make you sleepy,” warned Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What of it?” he said, and there seemed to be no answer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sure enough, Stu slept on the porch swing all afternoon while
Jennie struggled with the first volume of The Peasants and Rita
took Bob for a walk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you remember Tom Allen?” Bob asked her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t believe so,” she answered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you must remember the Allens! They lived next door to
the Deans. Well, anyway, Tom had a daughter, Louise, about our
age, and she ran away with Doc Marshall and got married.
Everybody thought old Tom would shoot Doc on sight, but when
they met and Doc asked Tom to forgive him, old Tom said he was
the one that ought to be asking forgiveness. So Doc said forgiveness
for what, and old Tom said, for not killing Louise when she
was a baby.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Near the end of their walk, Bob asked:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you never go to New York?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hardly ever, and especially at this time of year. It’s so hot!
But I suppose you and Jennie would like to see something of it.
We’ll arrange to drive in before you go home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Stu woke up a little after five and took on a fresh cargo of
Scotch before dinner.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You certainly ought to get a radio!” said Bob as the clock
struck nine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At half past, everybody went to bed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This will be our third day here,” said Bob, dressing. “We
don’t start home till a week from next Thursday.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said Jennie absently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d wear my other suit today, but it’s all wrinkled up,” said
Bob.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll ask Rita for an iron and press it out for you. Or maybe
we could send it to a tailor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tailor! There’s no tailor within miles of here, or anything
else as far as I can see!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Stu wasn’t up for breakfast, but joined the party on the porch
a little before lunch time. He had started in on a new bottle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bob,” he said, “you ought to fall off the wagon. I’ve got some
of the most able-bodied Scotch on Long Island.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thanks,” said his brother-in-law. “I may be tempted before
long.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was late in the afternoon when Bob said to Rita:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you remember old Tom Allen?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think so,” his sister replied. “Didn’t his daughter run
away with some doctor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said Bob, “and——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was interrupted by Stu’s voice, calling Rita from upstairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen,” said Stu when she had answered his summons, “A
telegram is coming for me tonight, saying that my grandfather is
sick up in Bennington, Vermont, or some place, and for me to
come at once. And he’s going to stay sick for at least ten days, so
sick that I can’t leave him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, sir!” said Rita firmly. “You don’t do that to me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, then, how about this? Suppose it’s one of our dearest
friends that’s sick and we’ve both got to go. Do you think they’d
go home? You see, we could pack up some baggage and run in to
New York and stay over night if necessary, and come back here
after they’re gone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If they ever found out, I couldn’t forgive myself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They won’t. You let me plan it and we’ll spring it after dinner.
I wouldn’t be so desperate if I hadn’t just got so I could
break an eighty-five and if I don’t keep after it I’ll be back in the
nineties.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But after dinner, while Rita and Stu were sparring for an opening,
Jennie said:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Folks, I hope you won’t think we are crazy, but Bob is, almost.
He’s worried to death about his garden. He read in the paper this
morning that there’s a regular drought threatened all through
southern Michigan. We were afraid of it, because it hadn’t rained
for a long time before we left. And now it looks like everything
would be ruined unless he gets back there and tends to things himself.
We left old Jimmy Preston to look out for things, but you
can’t trust things to an outsider. Bob feels like if he was there, he
could see that things were taken care of. The garden will get
plenty of water if Bob is there to see to it, but if he isn’t, there’s
no telling what will happen. So if you’ll forgive us, we’re thinking
about starting home on The Wolverine tomorrow afternoon.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well!” said Rita.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well!” said Stu.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course,” said Rita, “you know best, and it would be a
shame to have your whole garden spoiled. But it does seem——
But of course we wouldn’t dream of urging——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve simply got to go, sis,” said Bob. “And another thing:
Don’t bother about coming in to New York with us. Just send us
in your car tomorrow forenoon, say, and we’ll have time to look
around a little before we catch the train.”</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p class='pindent'>The Masons were in their room at the Biltmore.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s eight dollars a day without meals,” said Bob, “but we can
eat out, some place where it’s not expensive, and besides, it’s only
for a week. Tonight,” he went on, “Abie’s Irish Rose. Tomorrow
morning the top of the Woolworth Building. Tomorrow afternoon,
Coney. Thursday night, Abie again. After that, we’ll see.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Jennie laughed nervously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll be petrified every time we leave the hotel,” she said.
“Suppose we should meet them on the street!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s no danger of that,” said Bob. “Sis never comes to
town in summer and Stuart is taking a vacation. What I’m afraid
of is that they’ll run acrost some article on the weather conditions
in the Middle West and see where we’ve had the rainiest summer
since 1902.”</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>