<p>Stella Crane
had a maid,
but preferred
answering the
telephone herself
when she was at
home, which was
most of the time.
Calls came infrequently
and were
welcome⁠—an invitation
to go to the
theater with the Smalls, or to play bridge at Bess
Cooper&#39;s, or to dine with the Fields. Aside from two or
three of her husband&#39;s business acquaintances, whom
he had had at the house for evening conferences, the
Fields, Smalls and Coopers were about the only people
in New York Stella had met.</p>
<p>There was nothing wrong with her or Ralph; they
both dressed well and behaved respectably, and Stella
played a fair game of contract. But they were not asked
out much because Ralph, a patent lawyer, did a great
deal of work after hours and was anything but hospitable.
If you refrain from inviting people to your
house, they are going to invite you less and less often
to theirs.</p>
<p>It was hard on Stella, whose life in the city was not
what she had expected. Her husband realized this and
deluded himself and her with the promise that in the
near future he would be able to afford more leisure, and
then they&#39;d repay their social indebtedness and make
lots of new friends, and Stella would have no cause to
complain of loneliness and boredom.</p>
<p>She answered the telephone because the maid had a
tendency to confuse names as similar as Gillespie and
Hammond; and on this particular morning, the vaguely
familiar male voice at the other end of the wire began
the conversation with the intriguing challenge, &quot;I&#39;ll bet
you don&#39;t know who this is.&quot;</p>
<hr/>
<p>You sound like somebody,&quot; said Stella. &quot;Just give
me a second to think. I do know. Isn&#39;t it Will?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You win! I had no idea you&#39;d remember me after
all these years.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d have recognized you sooner if I had thought there
was any possibility of your being here.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, it took me a long time to get here, but I made
it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;And how long do you expect to stay?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Not more than a day or two. It&#39;s just a business
trip.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, tell me something about yourself. Are you married?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Not yet.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I thought I&#39;d have heard if you were,&quot; said Stella.</p>
<p>&quot;I guess you knew I wouldn&#39;t be.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Why?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t have to tell you that.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, Will! You&#39;re the same old Will!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I wish I was.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d like to see you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s perfectly mutual.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d ask you to dinner, but Ralph&#39;s in Washington and
won&#39;t be home till day after tomorrow.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m not crazy about seeing Ralph.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I know, but⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Can&#39;t two old friends like us get together and talk?
I&#39;m not inviting myself to your place, but I wish you&#39;d
have lunch with me, and we could go to a matinée.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It sounds wonderful!&quot; said Stella. &quot;Let me think.&quot;</p>
<p>Fifteen years ago, Ralph and Will had been rivals for
her love; not exactly her love either, for Will had won
that before Ralph appeared on the scene, and though
she had married Ralph, because he was &quot;new&quot; and persistent,
and chiefly because he was capable of supporting
a wife, she had never been quite sure that she was
as fond of him as of Will.</p>
<p>Since she had become Mrs. Crane, she had not been
alone with any man except her husband, her dentist
and the elevator operators in various buildings in which
she had lived. Ralph was not of a jealous disposition;
she thought he wasn&#39;t, anyway. She had never
given him cause to feel jealousy, so she couldn&#39;t be sure.</p>
<p>She had heard him comment on wives who &quot;went
around&quot; with other men and had gathered that he disapproved
of them, but surely he wouldn&#39;t find fault with
her even if the man happened to be an old flame and
his former rival. Besides, how would he know? And
she was lonely.</p>
<p>&quot;Why, yes, Will. I guess it will be all right.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That a girl! I&#39;ll call for you at a quarter of one.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That won&#39;t be necessary,&quot; said Stella, thinking of
the maid. &quot;I&#39;ll meet you at one, wherever you say.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You name the place. Remember, I&#39;m a yokel.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, the Biltmore, in the lobby, if that suits you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Any place suits me. The Biltmore lobby, then.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But have you changed much? Will I know you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll wear shoes.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, Will! You&#39;re the same old Will!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What show would you like to see today?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, anything. I haven&#39;t been to one for months.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right. I&#39;ll use my own judgment. One o&#39;clock, then, at the Biltmore.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Good-by.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Good-by, dear.&quot;</p>
<p>Stella&#39;s heart skipped a beat. That &quot;dear&quot; didn&#39;t
sound like old friends. It didn&#39;t sound safe, and she
knew she was glad he had said it.</p>
<hr/>
<p>She dressed carefully and spent a long time in front
of her mirror. It told her that although she had
changed a lot since twenty-four, her age when she and
Will had parted, she certainly did not look thirty-nine,
not within four or five years of it. Her face was unlined
and her figure still good, almost youthful, she
thought, despite the ten or twelve pounds she had taken
on as Mrs. Crane. There was not the same sparkle in
her eyes, perhaps, and her smile was less engaging, more
artificial; it was a smile she had cultivated for use when
one of the Fields, Coopers or Smalls had related a rough
story or joke which she hadn&#39;t understood or liked or
listened to.</p>
<p>Of course she was not conscious of this or of the
difference in her
eyes. She felt she
could still arouse
a man&#39;s interest,
particularly the
interest of a man
who hinted that
he had remained
single because he
could not have
her.</p>
<p>Will was more
than a little excited.
There had
been fifty girls
and women in his
life since Stella
had gone out of
it, but none who
had been able to
hold him, none
who had seemed
as desirable as
his sweetheart of
fifteen years ago.</p>
<p>He believed she had still cared a great deal for him
when she married Crane, and he believed that a woman
who had cared for him once never could get entirely
over it. Look at Fannie Towns, and May Judson, and
most of the others! All he had to do was to whistle and
they would come back.</p>
<p>Now he was going to meet the only one he had ever
really loved and wanted. She had been easily persuaded
to see him, and her husband was out of town. The day
would not end with the matinée.</p>
<p>He called up Endicott 9546. &quot;Betty? This is Will
again. Say, I&#39;m sorry about tonight, but I just had a
wire from Charlie Prince, from Buffalo. He&#39;s getting in
at seven o&#39;clock and wants me to meet him and stick
around with him all evening. No, it&#39;s business; I can&#39;t
get out of it. I&#39;ll call you tomorrow, and meanwhile,
don&#39;t forget me.&quot;</p>
<p>He and Stella had no trouble identifying each other.
Will immediately noted her plumpness, but was glad it
was no worse. He observed, too, the new smile, but
charged it to embarrassment. Stella saw that his hair
was thin and his face bore the marks of dissipation.
Otherwise, he was the same old Will.</p>
<p>He said they had plenty of time and she must order
something special to celebrate the occasion.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t feel
like eating,&quot;
said Stella. &quot;I
just want to
talk and hear
you talk.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;And I just
want to look
at you. That&#39;s
feast enough
for me.&quot;</p>
<p>But the wait-
er was hovering,
and to get
rid of him they
had to make a
choice.</p>
<p>&quot;You haven&#39;t
changed a bit,&quot;
said Will, after
ordering.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve changed
more than you
have. I&#39;m heavier.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Very little.
And look at my
hair, or what&#39;s
left of it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t think you&#39;ve lost much⁠—not much.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m not worrying about it, anyway,&quot; said Will, who
worried about it a great deal. &quot;It&#39;s too late for me to
care whether I&#39;m handsome or not.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I think you&#39;re just as handsome as ever.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s all that matters.&quot;
&quot;But I want to hear about
you, Will. Are you still with Boyer?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m back with Boyer. I quit them for
a while; gave them a chance to miss
me. They hired me back for fifteen
thousand a year, five thousand more
than my old contract.&quot;</p>
<p>Fifteen thousand a year was big money
in Will&#39;s eyes; it was three thousand
more than he was getting, and he didn&#39;t
relish Stella&#39;s comment:</p>
<p>&quot;That ought to be plenty for you,
a bachelor with no responsibilities. If
you were married and living in a place
like New York⁠—well, Ralph makes nearly
thirty thousand and we aren&#39;t able to
save much. We don&#39;t spend much either,
but it goes. Food and clothes and rent⁠—everything&#39;s
so frightfully high.&quot;</p>
<p>It didn&#39;t occur to Will that she might
have overestimated Ralph&#39;s income as he
had his own, and he was not interested
in the cost of New York living. He
changed the subject.</p>
<p>&quot;I got tickets for &#39;Journey&#39;s End.&#39;&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, you&#39;ll love it,&quot; said Stella after
the briefest of pauses. &quot;Everybody&#39;s mad
about it, especially the men.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You haven&#39;t seen it, have you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, I have, but I don&#39;t mind a bit.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You told me you hadn&#39;t seen anything.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I didn&#39;t think you&#39;d pick it out. I
thought you liked musical shows. But
it honestly doesn&#39;t make any difference.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It does, too. I&#39;m going to see if I
can&#39;t get something else.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Please, Will, don&#39;t! For one thing,
it&#39;s late, and I swear I&#39;d just as soon see
this again. If it wasn&#39;t so good, I&#39;d let
you change. But I wouldn&#39;t have you
miss it for the world. There&#39;s no girl in
it and it&#39;s a war play and probably more
interesting to men than women, but I
don&#39;t care.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I do. Let me see if I can&#39;t get something
for &#39;Follow Thru.&#39;&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, they say that&#39;s wonderful, but I
know they&#39;d be sold out. And I really
want to see &#39;Journey&#39;s End&#39; again; I may
get more out of it the second time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I wish you&#39;d told me. Maybe we can
go to &#39;Follow Thru&#39; tonight.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t let&#39;s talk about it any more.
Let&#39;s talk about you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That won&#39;t be very interesting.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It will to me. I want to hear all
about your business affairs and your
love affairs, and everything.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Will, &quot;I&#39;ve done pretty
well in business; that is, for me. Nothing
like Ralph, I suppose, but I&#39;m satisfied.
As for love affairs, you ought to
know as much about that as I do.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I mean I haven&#39;t had any since you.&quot;</p>
<p>Now this was the sort of conversation
that appealed to Stella and would have
kept her in her most attractive rôle, that
of an interested, almost mute audience.
Unfortunately the waiter arrived with
food and Will was diverted from his
&quot;line,&quot; his appetite for victuals being the
one thing powerful enough to make him
forget Romance.</p>
<p>&quot;These scallops are great!&quot; he said.
&quot;Don&#39;t you like scallops?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, indeed! I often order them.
I love the way they fix them at the
Ritz.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Is the Ritz a better place to eat?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know. I guess they&#39;re about
the same, only the Ritz is more expensive.
Maybe it isn&#39;t either, but you
think of it as more expensive. That&#39;s
why I didn&#39;t suggest meeting you there.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Listen, I&#39;m not a pauper!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Of course not, Will. Just the same,
I&#39;d feel guilty if you spent more on me
than you can afford.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;A man making fifteen thousand a
year⁠—&quot;</p>
<p>Stella laughed. &quot;You&#39;re the same old
Will! You talk like a millionaire. Why,
the men I know, Ralph&#39;s friends and
mine, men who make even a bigger income
than Ralph, you don&#39;t see them
spending five or six dollars on lunch.
They appreciate the value of money.
and that&#39;s what you never did, Will. I
hate stingy people, but there&#39;s a big
difference between stinginess and thrift,
and it&#39;s the thrifty ones who get along
in this world.&quot;</p>
<p>Will could not boast that he was
thrifty, but he did think he had got
along and Stella&#39;s theory that he hadn&#39;t
would have made him pretty mad if the
food had been short of delicious.</p>
<p>&quot;You didn&#39;t answer my question,&quot; said
Stella at length.</p>
<p>&quot;What question?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I asked about your love affairs.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I told you I hadn&#39;t had any since
you ditched me.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t say I ditched&#39; you, Will. It
was just⁠—well, I liked Ralph a lot, and
he was serious, and marrying him meant
getting away from that deadly place.
And you must admit you couldn&#39;t have
married anybody in those days. I did
care for you, Will. I still do-&quot;</p>
<p>She stopped as if in embarrassment.
She hoped he would sustain the sentimental
note and his next remark sounded
encouraging.</p>
<p>&quot;Not like you used to.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How do you know?&quot; she said softly.</p>
<p>&quot;What?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I won&#39;t repeat it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I wish you would.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No. I mustn&#39;t.&quot;</p>
<p>Will was too intent on his spumoni to insist.</p>
<p>&quot;It will be dark in the theater,&quot; he
thought. &quot;I&#39;ll hold her hand and see
how she takes it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It will be dark in the theater,&quot;
thought Stella, &quot;and maybe he&#39;ll call
me &#39;dear&#39; again.&quot;</p>
<p>Her lecture on economy cost the
waiter fifty cents, Will giving him half
a dollar instead of a whole one as he
had planned. He could not help regarding
her as a bit inconsistent when
she vetoed his suggestion that they
walk to the Henry Miller, not four
blocks away.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m frightfully lazy,&quot; she said, not
mentioning the fact that her shoes
hurt.</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; said Will, &quot;but if you&#39;re
going to let me buy a taxi, you&#39;ve got
to let me take you to dinner at the
Ritz.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I couldn&#39;t think of it!&quot; said Stella.
&quot;For one thing, I&#39;d be sure to see somebody
I know. And haven&#39;t you business
to attend to, people to look up? I
mustn&#39;t take too much of your time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll postpone business till Ralph gets
back.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I can&#39;t decide just now.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You want to be sure you like me.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It isn&#39;t that. You know I like you.
But there are things to be considered.&quot;</p>
<p>The seats were in the twelfth row.</p>
<p>&quot;These are rotten seats!&quot; said Will.</p>
<p>&quot;You can&#39;t get good ones at the box
office.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I got these at my hotel.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, they&#39;re all right. You mustn&#39;t
worry on my account. I told you I&#39;d
seen it before. We had the fourth row
that night, right in the center, just perfect.
Herb Small got them through the
University Club. He always gets grand
seats.&quot;</p>
<p>The curtain rose.</p>
<p>&quot;This is the British front, in the war,&quot;
explained Stella. &quot;It&#39;s what they call a
dugout, where the officers stay. The
whole three acts all take place in the
one scene.</p>
<p>&quot;That officer, that lieutenant or whatever
he is,&quot; she continued, &quot;he&#39;s a school-teacher
in England. I mean he was,
before the war. He gets killed later on.
It&#39;s a terribly depressing play. Lillian
Fields cried the night we saw it.&quot;</p>
<p>A customer in the eleventh row turned
round and gave Stella a nasty look,
after which she whispered.</p>
<p>&quot;This young boy, he&#39;s a new officer, he
hasn&#39;t been at the front before; at least,
not at this front. He&#39;s been transferred
or something. And the hero, the captain,
is in love with the boy&#39;s sister.</p>
<p>&quot;Not this captain, I don&#39;t mean,&quot; she
went on. &quot;The other captain, the leading
man, takes this one&#39;s place. He
gets mad when he sees his sweetheart&#39;s
brother. He doesn&#39;t want anybody that
he knows around, because he&#39;s really
a coward and of course he&#39;s afraid people
will find it out, especially his girl.&quot;</p>
<p>The man in front of them turned
round again and said &quot;Ssh!&quot; in none too
friendly a manner. Stella thought he
must be ssh-ing someone else.</p>
<p>&quot;The only way he can &#39;carry on,&#39; as
they call it, is by drinking, so he drinks
hard all the time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That man wants us to quit talking,&quot;
said Will, and congratulated himself on
the diplomatic plural.</p>
<p>&quot;It&#39;s somebody back of us he&#39;s complaining
of,&quot; said Stella. &quot;Now when
the other captain comes in, you notice
him, notice how big he looks. And they
say he isn&#39;t really big at all; I mean, off
the stage. Some friends of ours, the
Coopers, they met him at a party and
they say he&#39;s not nearly as big as he
looks. He wears some kind of shoes or
something that make him look big; I
mean, on the stage. You notice when he
comes in.&quot;</p>
<p>The theater was dark, but Will seemed
to have forgotten the hand-holding test.</p>
<p>&quot;The hero, the captain, the man that&#39;s
in love with the young boy&#39;s sister, he
went to the same school the young boy
went to, and he was the idol of the
school. The boy, the girl&#39;s brother, worships
him. Of course he doesn&#39;t know
he&#39;s a coward and drinks to hide it.</p>
<p>&quot;That other officer there, that young
one, he&#39;s a coward, too, and he pretends
he&#39;s sick so they&#39;ll send him away from
the front. But the hero threatens to kill
him unless he quits pretending he&#39;s sick.
He points a revolver right at him and
says he&#39;ll shoot him dead if he doesn&#39;t
&#39;buck up.&#39;</p>
<p>&quot;I was frightened to death that he
really would shoot him, the night I saw
it. I don&#39;t like that part of it at all,
and it hasn&#39;t anything to do with the
rest of the play, but the play would have
been too short without it. It&#39;s awfully
short as it is. It doesn&#39;t begin till nearly
nine; I mean, at night, and it&#39;s over
about half past ten; that&#39;s half past four
for a matinée.&quot;</p>
<p>Will wished he had brought a box of
molasses taffy.</p>
<p>&quot;Here&#39;s the real captain now, the hero.
See how big he looks? And he really
isn&#39;t big at all off the stage. He&#39;s mad
at the girl&#39;s brother being there. After
a while the brother writes a letter to his
sister and the captain is afraid he&#39;ll tell
her about his drinking and so forth. So
he wants to read the letter and the boy
doesn&#39;t want him to, but he says he has
a right to censor all mail. Finally the
school-teacher reads the letter out loud
and it&#39;s so complimentary to the captain
that he&#39;s ashamed of having made
him read it.</p>
<p>&quot;Isn&#39;t the sergeant funny? I guess
he&#39;s a sergeant. It makes you laugh
just to look at him. They&#39;re all English,
the whole company. I think there
are other companies playing it out West
or somewhere, and they&#39;re all English,
too. And it&#39;s going to be a picture, a
talking picture. Do you like talking pictures?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; said Will. &quot;Or people.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;After a while the colonel comes in
and tells the captain that they want to
find out who the Germans are in the
trench facing them; that is, the number
of the German regiment or something.
I don&#39;t see what difference it makes as
long as they&#39;re Germans, but Ralph says
they always want to know so they can
figure out the distribution of the German
troops, how they&#39;re distributed. So
the captain has to send some men over
to the German trenches, across No Man&#39;s
Land, and they&#39;re supposed to capture a
German prisoner and bring him back
and then they&#39;ll know what regiment is
facing them.</p>
<p>&quot;The captain hates to send anybody
because it&#39;s almost sure death, but
he&#39;s got to obey orders. He sends the
young boy, the brother, the girl&#39;s brother,
and that school-teacher, and the young
boy gets a prisoner and the school-teacher
gets killed.</p>
<p>&quot;The funny thing about it is that you
kind of wish it was the boy that got
killed in place of the school-teacher.
But the boy gets killed later.</p>
<p>&quot;Of course they know what it means
to do it and the boy is terribly nervous,
but still he&#39;s glad of a chance to do
something important. He and the
school-teacher recite &#39;Alice in Wonderland&#39;
before they go; not all of it; just
quotations from it so as not to think of
what&#39;s before them. That&#39;s the school-teacher&#39;s
way of keeping his mind off
danger, instead of drinking, like the captain.</p>
<p>&quot;You wait till you see how the captain
drinks. It must be colored water
or tea or something. If it were real
whisky he&#39;d fall off the stage. It can&#39;t
even be tea or he&#39;d get sick. Do you
drink much, Will?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve been on the wagon,&quot; said Will,
&quot;but I think I&#39;m going to fall off to-night;
maybe this afternoon.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Why?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know. I just feel like it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I wish you wouldn&#39;t. You used to get
so silly when you drank.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I still do.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But you were kind of funny and
amusing, too. And then you usually got
very affectionate.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m different now. I get silly at first;
not funny at all. Then I get brutal and
want to fight people, whoever is with
me, my best friends, even girls.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You don&#39;t mean really fight them!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, I do. The reason why I got on
the wagon is because I was with a girl,
a girl I cared quite a lot for; we went
on a party and I had about four drinks,
and for no reason at all, I socked her
in the mouth and knocked her down.
It&#39;s whoever I happen to be with when
I get that way.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Then you ought never to drink anything.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s good advice, but sometimes I
just have to. And it doesn&#39;t seem right
not to enjoy myself, my first time in
New York.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You certainly don&#39;t call it enjoying
yourself, to hit women!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I do, though. I get quite a kick out
of it. I don&#39;t mean I pick on women especially,
but this girl just happened to
be there.&quot;</p>
<p>For the sake of those readers who
have not seen &quot;Journey&#39;s End&quot; and who
hope to, I will not divulge any more of
its content, but will merely state that
there were at least two men in the
audience who wished they could borrow
the captain&#39;s gun.</p>
<p>&quot;Will,&quot; said Stella as they went out,
&quot;I don&#39;t believe we&#39;d better have dinner
together. I&#39;m tired and you look tired
yourself.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m not tired,&quot; said Will. &quot;Even if
I was, a few shots of rye will fix me
up.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But I&#39;m afraid. I&#39;m afraid Ralph
might come home.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You said he wouldn&#39;t be home till
day after tomorrow.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;He changes his mind sometimes. He
never stays away longer than he has to.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s what he tells you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Nothing at all. But I&#39;m not going
to urge you against your better judgment.
Do exactly as you like.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, I really think you&#39;d better send
me home. It&#39;s been grand-&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll take you home.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No, that isn&#39;t necessary at all,&quot; she
said. &quot;And the maid might see you and
wonder.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right, Stell&#39;. We mustn&#39;t let the
maid wonder.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll get in this taxi. Good-by, Will.
It was wonderful of you to give me such
a treat.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m the one that got the treat.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;re the same old Will!&quot;</p>
<p>The taxi drove off and Will hurried to
his hotel, where he immediately called
Endicott 9546.</p>
<p>&quot;Betty? Say, I just had another wire
from Charlie Prince. He was driving
from Buffalo and he burnt out a bearing
at Binghamton and can&#39;t get here
till tomorrow. You haven&#39;t made another
date, have you? That a girl!&quot;</p>
