<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Love Nest</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-love-nest" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Love Nest</h2>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll tell you what I’m going to do with you, Mr. Bartlett,” said
the great man. “I’m going to take you right out to my home and
have you meet the wife and family; stay to dinner and all night.
We’ve got plenty of room and extra pajamas, if you don’t mind
them silk. I mean that’ll give you a chance to see us just as we
are. I mean you can get more that way than if you sat here a
whole week, asking me questions.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I don’t want to put you to a lot of trouble,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Trouble!” The great man laughed. “There’s no trouble
about it. I’ve got a house that’s like a hotel. I mean a big house
with lots of servants. But anyway I’m always glad to do anything
I can for a writing man, especially a man that works for
Ralph Doane. I’m very fond of Ralph. I mean I like him personally
besides being a great editor. I mean I’ve known him for
years and when there’s anything I can do for him, I’m glad to do
it. I mean it’ll be a pleasure to have you. So if you want to notify
your family——”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I haven’t any family,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’m sorry for you! And I bet when you see mine, you’ll
wish you had one of your own. But I’m glad you can come and
we’ll start now so as to get there before the kiddies are put away
for the night. I mean I want you to be sure and see the kiddies.
I’ve got three.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve seen their pictures,” said Bartlett. “You must be very
proud of them. They’re all girls, aren’t they?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, sir; three girls. I wouldn’t have a boy. I mean I always
wanted girls. I mean girls have got a lot more zip to them.
I mean they’re a lot zippier. But let’s go! The Rolls is downstairs
and if we start now we’ll get there before dark. I mean I
want you to see the place while it’s still daylight.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The great man—Lou Gregg, president of Modern Pictures, Inc.—escorted
his visitor from the magnificent office by a private door
and down a private stairway to the avenue, where the glittering
car with its glittering chauffeur waited.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My wife was in town today,” said Gregg as they glided northward,
“and I hoped we could ride out together, but she called up
about two and asked would I mind if she went on home in the
Pierce. She was through with her shopping and she hates to be
away from the house and the kiddies any longer than she can help.
Celia’s a great home girl. You’d never know she was the same girl
now as the girl I married seven years ago. I mean she’s different.
I mean she’s not the same. I mean her marriage and being a
mother has developed her. Did you ever see her? I mean in pictures?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think I did once,” replied Bartlett. “Didn’t she play the
young sister in ‘The Cad’?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, with Harold Hodgson and Marie Blythe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought I’d seen her. I remember her as very pretty and
vivacious.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She certainly was! And she is yet! I mean she’s even prettier,
but of course she ain’t a kid, though she looks it. I mean she
was only seventeen in that picture and that was ten years ago. I
mean she’s twenty-seven years old now. But I never met a girl
with as much zip as she had in those days. It’s remarkable how
marriage changes them. I mean nobody would ever thought Celia
Sayles would turn out to be a sit-by-the-fire. I mean she still
likes a good time, but her home and kiddies come first. I mean her
home and kiddies come first.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I see what you mean,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>An hour’s drive brought them to Ardsley-on-Hudson and the
great man’s home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A wonderful place!” Bartlett exclaimed with a heroic semblance
of enthusiasm as the car turned in at an <span class='it'>arc de triomphe</span> of
a gateway and approached a white house that might have been mistaken
for the Yale Bowl.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It ought to be!” said Gregg. “I mean I’ve spent enough on
it. I mean these things cost money.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He indicated with a gesture the huge house and Urbanesque
landscaping.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But no amount of money is too much to spend on home. I
mean it’s a good investment if it tends to make your family proud
and satisfied with their home. I mean every nickel I’ve spent here
is like so much insurance; it insures me of a happy wife and family.
And what more can a man ask!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bartlett didn’t know, but the topic was forgotten in the business
of leaving the resplendent Rolls and entering the even more
resplendent reception hall.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Forbes will take your things,” said Gregg. “And, Forbes, you
may tell Dennis that Mr. Bartlett will spend the night.” He faced
the wide stairway and raised his voice. “Sweetheart!” he called.</p>

<p class='pindent'>From above came the reply in contralto: “Hello, sweetheart!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come down, sweetheart. I’ve brought you a visitor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right, sweetheart, in just a minute.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Gregg led Bartlett into a living-room that was five laps to the
mile and suggestive of an Atlantic City auction sale.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sit there,” said the host, pointing to a balloon-stuffed easy
chair, “and I’ll see if we can get a drink. I’ve got some real old
Bourbon that I’d like you to try. You know I come from Chicago
and I always liked Bourbon better than Scotch. I mean I always
preferred it to Scotch. Forbes,” he addressed the servant, “we
want a drink. You’ll find a full bottle of that Bourbon in the
cupboard.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s only half full, sir,” said Forbes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Half full! That’s funny! I mean I opened it last night and
just took one drink. I mean it ought to be full.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s only half full,” repeated Forbes, and went to fetch it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll have to investigate,” Gregg told his guest. “I mean this
ain’t the first time lately that some of my good stuff has disappeared.
When you keep so many servants, it’s hard to get all honest
ones. But here’s Celia!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bartlett rose to greet the striking brunette who at this moment
made an entrance so Delsarte as to be almost painful. With never
a glance at him, she minced across the room to her husband and
took a half interest in a convincing kiss.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, sweetheart,” she said when it was at last over.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is Mr. Bartlett, sweetheart,” said her husband. “Mr.
Bartlett, meet Mrs. Gregg.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Bartlett shook his hostess’s proffered two fingers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m so pleased!” said Celia in a voice reminiscent of Miss
Claire’s imitation of Miss Barrymore.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Bartlett,” Gregg went on, “is with Mankind, Ralph
Doane’s magazine. He is going to write me up; I mean us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, you mean you,” said Celia. “I’m sure the public is not
interested in great men’s wives.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I am sure you are mistaken, Mrs. Gregg,” said Bartlett politely.
“In this case at least. You are worth writing up aside
from being a great man’s wife.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid you’re a flatterer, Mr. Bartlett,” she returned. “I
have been out of the limelight so long that I doubt if anybody remembers
me. I’m no longer an artist; merely a happy wife and
mother.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And I claim, sweetheart,” said Gregg, “that it takes an artist
to be that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, no, sweetheart!” said Celia. “Not when they have you
for a husband!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The exchange of hosannahs was interrupted by the arrival of
Forbes with the tray.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Will you take yours straight or in a high-ball?” Gregg inquired
of his guest. “Personally I like good whisky straight. I
mean mixing it with water spoils the flavor. I mean whisky like
this, it seems like a crime to mix it with water.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll have mine straight,” said Bartlett, who would have preferred
a high-ball.</p>

<p class='pindent'>While the drinks were being prepared, he observed his hostess
more closely and thought how much more charming she would be
if she had used finesse in improving on nature. Her cheeks, her
mouth, her eyes, and lashes had been, he guessed, far above the
average in beauty before she had begun experimenting with them.
And her experiments had been clumsy. She was handsome in
spite of her efforts to be handsomer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen, sweetheart,” said her husband. “One of the servants
has been helping himself to this Bourbon. I mean it was a full
bottle last night and I only had one little drink out of it. And
now it’s less than half full. Who do you suppose has been at it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How do I know, sweetheart? Maybe the groceryman or the
iceman or somebody.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But you and I and Forbes are the only ones that have a key.
I mean it was locked up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe you forgot to lock it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I never do. Well, anyway, Bartlett, here’s a go!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Doesn’t Mrs. Gregg indulge?” asked Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Only a cocktail before dinner,” said Celia. “Lou objects to
me drinking whisky, and I don’t like it much anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t object to you drinking whisky, sweetheart. I just object
to you drinking to excess. I mean I think it coarsens a
woman to drink. I mean it makes them coarse.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, there’s no argument, sweetheart. As I say, I don’t care
whether I have it or not.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly is great Bourbon!” said Bartlett, smacking his
lips and putting his glass back on the tray.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You bet it is!” Gregg agreed. “I mean you can’t buy that
kind of stuff any more. I mean it’s real stuff. You help yourself
when you want another. Mr. Bartlett is going to stay all night,
sweetheart. I told him he could get a whole lot more of a line on
us that way than just interviewing me in the office. I mean I’m
tongue-tied when it comes to talking about my work and my success.
I mean it’s better to see me out here as I am, in my home,
with my family. I mean my home life speaks for itself without
me saying a word.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But, sweetheart,” said his wife, “what about Mr. Latham?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gosh! I forgot all about him! I must phone and see if I can
call it off. That’s terrible! You see,” he explained to Bartlett, “I
made a date to go up to Tarrytown tonight, to K. L. Latham’s, the
sugar people. We’re going to talk over the new club. We’re going
to have a golf club that will make the rest of them look like a toy.
I mean a real golf club! They want me to kind of run it. And I
was to go up there tonight and talk it over. I’ll phone and see if I
can postpone it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, don’t postpone it on my account!” urged Bartlett. “I
can come out again some other time, or I can see you in town.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t see how you <span class='it'>can</span> postpone it, sweetheart,” said Celia.
“Didn’t he say old Mr. King was coming over from White Plains?
They’ll be mad at you if you don’t go.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid they would resent it, sweetheart. Well, I’ll tell you.
You can entertain Mr. Bartlett and I’ll go up there right after
dinner and come back as soon as I can. And Bartlett and I can
talk when I get back. I mean we can talk when I get back. How
is that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That suits me,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll be as entertaining as I can,” said Celia, “but I’m afraid
that isn’t very entertaining. However, if I’m too much of a bore,
there’s plenty to read.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No danger of my being bored,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, that’s all fixed then,” said the relieved host. “I hope
you’ll excuse me running away. But I don’t see how I can get out
of it. I mean with old King coming over from White Plains. I
mean he’s an old man. But listen, sweetheart—where are the
kiddies? Mr. Bartlett wants to see them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed!” agreed the visitor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course you’d say so!” Celia said. “But we <span class='it'>are</span> proud of
them! I suppose all parents are the same. They all think their
own children are the only children in the world. Isn’t that so, Mr.
Bartlett? Or haven’t you any children?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m sorry to say I’m not married.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, you poor thing! We pity him, don’t we, sweetheart?
But why aren’t you, Mr. Bartlett? Don’t tell me you’re a woman
hater!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not now, anyway,” said the gallant Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you get that, sweetheart? He’s paying you a pretty compliment.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I heard it, sweetheart. And now I’m sure he’s a flatterer. But
I must hurry and get the children before Hortense puts them to
bed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Gregg when his wife had left the room, “would
you say she’s changed?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A little, and for the better. She’s more than fulfilled her
early promise.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think so,” said Gregg. “I mean I think she was a beautiful
girl and now she’s an even more beautiful woman. I mean wifehood
and maternity have given her a kind of a—well, you know—I
mean a kind of a pose. I mean a pose. How about another
drink?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were emptying their glasses when Celia returned with
two of her little girls.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The baby’s in bed and I was afraid to ask Hortense to get her
up again. But you’ll see her in the morning. This is Norma and
this is Grace. Girls, this is Mr. Bartlett.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girls received this news calmly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, girls,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you think of them, Bartlett?” demanded their father.
“I mean what do you think of them?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re great!” replied the guest with creditable warmth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I mean aren’t they pretty?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I should say they are!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There, girls! Why don’t you thank Mr. Bartlett?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thanks,” murmured Norma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How old are you, Norma?” asked Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Six,” said Norma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Bartlett. “And how old is Grace?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Four,” replied Norma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Bartlett. “And how old is baby sister?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“One and a half,” answered Norma.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As this seemed to be final, “Come, girls,” said their mother.
“Kiss daddy good night and I’ll take you back to Hortense.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll take them,” said Gregg. “I’m going up-stairs anyway.
And you can show Bartlett around. I mean before it gets any
darker.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good night, girls,” said Bartlett, and the children murmured
a good night.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll come and see you before you’re asleep,” Celia told them.
And after Gregg had led them out, “Do you really think they’re
pretty?” she asked Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I certainly do. Especially Norma. She’s the image of you,”
said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She looks a little like I used to,” Celia admitted. “But I hope
she doesn’t look like me now. I’m too old looking.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You look remarkably young!” said Bartlett. “No one would
believe you were the mother of three children.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, Mr. Bartlett! But I mustn’t forget I’m to ‘show you
around.’ Lou is so proud of our home!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And with reason,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It <span class='it'>is</span> wonderful! I call it our love nest. Quite a big nest,
don’t you think? Mother says it’s too big to be cosy; she says she
can’t think of it as a home. But I always say a place is whatever
one makes of it. A woman can be happy in a tent if they love each
other. And miserable in a royal palace without love. Don’t you
think so, Mr. Bartlett?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is this really such wonderful Bourbon? I think I’ll just take
a sip of it and see what it’s like. It can’t hurt me if it’s so good.
Do you think so, Mr. Bartlett?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t believe so.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well then, I’m going to taste it and if it hurts me it’s your
fault.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Celia poured a whisky glass two-thirds full and drained it at
a gulp.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It <span class='it'>is</span> good, isn’t it?” she said. “Of course I’m not much of
a judge as I don’t care for whisky and Lou won’t let me drink it.
But he’s raved so about this Bourbon that I did want to see what
it was like. You won’t tell on me, will you, Mr. Bartlett?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not I!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder how it would be in a high-ball. Let’s you and I
have just one. But I’m forgetting I’m supposed to show you the
place. We won’t have time to drink a high-ball and see the place
too before Lou comes down. Are you so crazy to see the place?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not very.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, then, what do you say if we have a high-ball? And it’ll
be a secret between you and I.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They drank in silence and Celia pressed a button by the door.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You may take the bottle and tray,” she told Forbes. “And
now,” she said to Bartlett, “we’ll go out on the porch and see as
much as we can see. You’ll have to guess the rest.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Gregg, having changed his shirt and collar, joined them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” he said to Bartlett, “have you seen everything?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess I have, Mr. Gregg,” lied the guest readily. “It’s a
wonderful place!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We like it. I mean it suits us. I mean it’s my idear of a real
home. And Celia calls it her love nest.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So she told me,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’ll always be sentimental,” said her husband.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He put his hand on her shoulder, but she drew away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I must run up and dress,” she said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dress!” exclaimed Bartlett, who had been dazzled by her
flowered green chiffon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I’m not going to really dress,” she said. “But I couldn’t
wear this thing for dinner!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps you’d like to clean up a little, Bartlett,” said Gregg.
“I mean Forbes will show you your room if you want to go up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It might be best,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Celia, in a black lace dinner gown, was rather quiet during the
elaborate meal. Three or four times when Gregg addressed her,
she seemed to be thinking of something else and had to ask, “What
did you say, sweetheart?” Her face was red and Bartlett imagined
that she had “sneaked” a drink or two besides the two helpings
of Bourbon and the cocktail that had preceded dinner.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’ll leave you,” said Gregg when they were in the living-room
once more. “I mean the sooner I get started, the sooner I’ll
be back. Sweetheart, try and keep your guest awake and don’t let
him die of thirst. <span class='it'>Au revoir</span>, Bartlett. I’m sorry, but it can’t be
helped. There’s a fresh bottle of the Bourbon, so go to it. I mean
help yourself. It’s too bad you have to drink alone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It <span class='it'>is</span> too bad, Mr. Bartlett,” said Celia when Gregg had gone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s too bad?” asked Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That you have to drink alone. I feel like I wasn’t being a good
hostess to let you do it. In fact, I refuse to let you do it. I’ll
join you in just a little wee sip.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But it’s so soon after dinner!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s never too soon! I’m going to have a drink myself and
if you don’t join me, you’re a quitter.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She mixed two life-sized high-balls and handed one to her guest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now we’ll turn on the radio and see if we can’t stir things up.
There! No, no! Who cares about the old baseball! Now! This
is better! Let’s dance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m sorry, Mrs. Gregg, but I don’t dance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, you’re an old cheese! To make me dance alone! ‘All
alone, yes, I’m all alone.’ ”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no affectation in her voice now and Bartlett was
amazed at her unlabored grace as she glided around the big room.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But it’s no fun alone,” she complained. “Let’s shut the damn
thing off and talk.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I love to watch you dance,” said Bartlett.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, but I’m no Pavlowa,” said Celia as she silenced the radio.
“And besides, it’s time for a drink.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve still got more than half of mine.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, you had that wine at dinner, so I’ll have to catch up with
you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She poured herself another high-ball and went at the task of
“catching up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The trouble with you, Mr.—now isn’t that a scream! I can’t
think of your name.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bartlett.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The trouble with you, Barker—do you know what’s the trouble
with you? You’re too sober. See? You’re too damn sober!
That’s the whole trouble, see? If you weren’t so sober, we’d be
better off. See? What I can’t understand is how you can be so
sober and me so high.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re not used to it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not used to it! That’s the cat’s pajamas! Say, I’m like this
half the time, see? If I wasn’t, I’d die!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What does your husband say?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He don’t say because he don’t know. See, Barker? There’s
nights when he’s out and there’s a few nights when I’m out myself.
And there’s other nights when we’re both in and I pretend
I’m sleepy and I go up-stairs. See? But I don’t go to bed. See?
I have a little party all by myself. See? If I didn’t, I’d die!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you mean, you’d die?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re dumb, Barker! You may be sober, but you’re dumb!
Did you fall for all that apple sauce about the happy home and
the contented wife? Listen, Barker—I’d give anything in the
world to be out of this mess. I’d give anything to never see him
again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you love him any more? Doesn’t he love you? Or
what?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Love! I never did love him! I didn’t know what love was!
And all his love is for himself!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How did you happen to get married?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was a kid; that’s the answer. A kid and ambitious. See? He
was a director then and he got stuck on me and I thought he’d
make me a star. See, Barker? I married him to get myself a
chance. And now look at me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d say you were fairly well off.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well off, am I? I’d change places with the scum of the earth
just to be free! See, Barker? And I could have been a star without
any help if I’d only realized it. I had the looks and I had the
talent. I’ve got it yet. I could be a Swanson and get myself a
marquis; maybe a prince! And look what I did get! A self-satisfied,
self-centered——! I thought he’d <span class='it'>make</span> me! See, Barker?
Well, he’s made me all right; he’s made me a chronic mother and
it’s a wonder I’ve got any looks left.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I fought at first. I told him marriage didn’t mean giving up
my art, my life work. But it was no use. He wanted a beautiful
wife and beautiful children for his beautiful home. Just to show
us off. See? I’m part of his chattels. See, Barker? I’m just
like his big diamond or his cars or his horses. And he wouldn’t
stand for his wife ‘lowering’ herself to act in pictures. Just as
if pictures hadn’t made him!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You go back to your magazine tomorrow and write about our
love nest. See, Barker? And be sure and don’t get mixed and
call it a baby ranch. Babies! You thought little Norma was
pretty. Well, she is. And what is it going to get her? A rich —— of
a husband that treats her like a ——! That’s what it’ll get her
if I don’t interfere. I hope I don’t last long enough to see her
grow up, but if I do, I’m going to advise her to run away from
home and live her own life. And <span class='it'>be</span> somebody! Not a <span class='it'>thing</span> like
I am! See, Barker?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you ever think of a divorce?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did I ever think of one! Listen—but there’s no chance. I’ve
got nothing on him, and no matter what he had on me, he’d never
let the world know it. He’d keep me here and torture me like he
does now, only worse. But I haven’t done anything wrong, see?
The men I might care for, they’re all scared of him and his money
and power. See, Barker? And the others are just as bad as him.
Like fat old Morris, the hotel man, that everybody thinks he’s a
model husband. The reason he don’t step out more is because he’s
too stingy. But I could have him if I wanted him. Every time
he gets near enough to me, he squeezes my hand. I guess he thinks
it’s a nickel, the tight old ——! But come on, Barker. Let’s
have a drink. I’m running down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think it’s about time you were running up—up-stairs,” said
Bartlett. “If I were you, I’d try to be in bed and asleep when
Gregg gets home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re all right, Barker. And after this drink I’m going to
do just as you say. Only I thought of it before you did, see? I
think of it lots of nights. And tonight you can help me out by telling
him I had a bad headache.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Left alone, Bartlett thought a while, then read, and finally
dozed off. He was dozing when Gregg returned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, well, Bartlett,” said the great man, “did Celia desert
you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was perfectly all right, Mr. Gregg. She had a headache
and I told her to go to bed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s had a lot of headaches lately; reads too much, I guess.
Well, I’m sorry I had this date. It was about a new golf club and
I had to be there. I mean I’m going to be president of it. I see
you consoled yourself with some of the Bourbon. I mean the bottle
doesn’t look as full as it did.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hope you’ll forgive me for helping myself so generously,”
said Bartlett. “I don’t get stuff like that every day!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, what do you say if we turn in? We can talk on the way
to town tomorrow. Though I guess you won’t have much to ask
me. I guess you know all about us. I mean you know all about
us now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, indeed, Mr. Gregg. I’ve got plenty of material if I can
just handle it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Celia had not put in an appearance when Gregg and his guest
were ready to leave the house next day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She always sleeps late,” said Gregg. “I mean she never wakes
up very early. But she’s later than usual this morning. Sweetheart!”
he called up the stairs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, sweetheart,” came the reply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Bartlett’s leaving now. I mean he’s going.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, good-by, Mr. Bartlett. Please forgive me for not being
down to see you off.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re forgiven, Mrs. Gregg. And thanks for your hospitality.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good-by, sweetheart!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good-by, sweetheart!”</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>