<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Battle of the Century</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-battle-of-the-century" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Battle of the Century</h2>
			<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-1" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
<p>I don&#39;t know nothing that you don&#39;t know, but
if you want to hear it again, all right. I&#39;ll have to
start back pretty near two years ago, the first
time I seen Jim after he stopped Big Wheeler and win the
title. He&#39;d signed up with a circus and I happened to be
in Omaha when it hit there. I run into them on the street,
Jim and his manager, Larry Moon. I had them come to
my hotel where we could talk things over.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, Jim,&quot; I said, &quot;how does it feel to be champ?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Not so good,&quot; he says.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;you never did care much for the glory.
But still and all it&#39;s pretty sweet to have all that dough.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All what dough?&quot; says Jim.</p>
<p>&quot;Why,&quot; I said, &quot;what you got out of the Wheeler fight,
and what you&#39;re getting with this troupe, and what you&#39;ve
got a chance to get.&quot;</p>
<p>Jim laughed and so did Moon.</p>
<p>&quot;Listen, Pinkie,&quot; says Moon. &quot;You&#39;re an old pal, so
I don&#39;t mind telling you a couple of facts. Our net profits
out of the Wheeler fight wouldn&#39;t pay for a Chinaman&#39;s
personal laundry. We&#39;re making a little money with this
show, but we&#39;ve got to spend it because we&#39;re champion.
We&#39;ve got an offer to make a picture, but it ain&#39;t so much
and we&#39;ll have to blow the most of it to show we&#39;re a good
fella. Further and more, Jim hates that kind of work.
They&#39;s one thing he can do better than anybody else, and
that&#39;s fight. And that&#39;s all he wants to do, just fight.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;let him fight! He don&#39;t have to fight
for nothing.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Let him fight who?&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>&quot;Why, anybody that&#39;ll take him on,&quot; I said. &quot;Let him
be a champ like some of the old boys and battle everybody
that wants his game.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s a grand idear!&quot; said Larry. &quot;Now maybe
you&#39;ll go ahead and name four or five guys that wants his
game; that is, guys that&#39;s got enough chance with him so
as they&#39;d draw two hundred people at the gate.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;how about⁠—&quot; I had to stop and
think.</p>
<p>&quot;Sure!&quot; said Larry. &quot;There you are! Now you&#39;ll get
some idear of what we&#39;re up against. You say, &#39;Let him be
a champ like some of the old boys and fight everybody.&#39;
That&#39;d be O.K. if we was living twenty or thirty years ago
when they was a bunch round like Fitz, Corbett and
McCoy, and Choynski, Sharkey, Ruhlin, big Jeff, and all
that gang; any one of them liable to knock each other&#39;s
block off. But who have we got to pick from? They ain&#39;t
a man living or dead that&#39;s got a chance in God&#39;s world to
even make this baby prespire, and the worst of
it is that everybody knows it. Here I got a
champion at a time when everything&#39;s big
money and he should ought to be worth a million
fish to me and himself, and he ain&#39;t worth a
dime. And he won&#39;t be worth a dime, neither,
unless I can build something up.</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;s just one chance for us,&quot; says Larry,
&quot;and that&#39;s to have some young fella spring
up from nowheres and knock five or six of these
&#39;contenders&#39; for a gool; then we&#39;ll have to stall
a w&#39;ile and pretend like we&#39;re scared of
him till we&#39;ve got the bugs thinking that
maybe he has a look-in. The one thing in
our favor is that people loves to see a
champion get socked, especially my
champion, who ain&#39;t no matinée idol. So
if they think they&#39;s a man capable of
socking him, they&#39;ll pay to see it come
off. Believe me, if we do get a break
like that, I&#39;ll demand a purse that&#39;ll knock
their eye out. Because fights is going to be few
and far between for my little ward. His trouble
is that he&#39;s too good. He&#39;d be better if he was
worse. Right now they&#39;s no man in sight that it
wouldn&#39;t be a joke to match him with. So, as I
say, all we can do is watch and pray and hope
that some hero pops up before the heavyweight
champion of the world dies of starvation. Him
and his manager both.&quot;</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-2" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
<p>It was quite a w&#39;ile after this when I was in
New York and dropped in at the apartment
where Jim and Larry was living.</p>
<p>&quot;Set down,&quot; said Moon. &quot;Jim&#39;s out buying new records,
but I expect him right back.&quot;</p>
<p>So we set and chinned till the champ showed up. He&#39;d
boughten the afternoon papers and he showed us the big
headlines about the scrap in London-&quot;Goulet Stops
Bradford in First Round.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That Englishman must be a fine heel!&quot; said Jim.
&quot;This little French boy popped him on the chin and he
laid down and rolled over like a circus dog.&quot;</p>
<p>Larry grabbed the papers and read the story. &quot;Boys,&quot; 
he says, &quot;this may be it!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;May be what?&quot; says Jim.</p>
<p>&quot;Our chance!&quot; said Moon. &quot;This thing might be built
up till it meant something!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Say, listen,&quot; says the champ; &quot;I and you have been
together long enough so &#39;as we ought to be able to speak
the same language. But when you say &#39;This thing might
be built up, I swear I don&#39;t know what you&#39;re talking
about.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m talking about this thing that come off in London,&quot;
said Larry. &quot;Here&#39;s the champion of England and the
champion of France, the only two countries over there
that has boxing. Well, the champion of France stops this
Englishman with a punch and that makes him the champion of Europe. And it makes him look pretty good to the
English because they was all stuck on this Bradford. And
what looks good to the English looks good to a lot of people
here. The way the papers plays it up, you can see they
figure they&#39;s a good deal of interest in it. Further and
more, this guy Goulet is a war hero. He&#39;s the idol of
Europe and the champion of Europe, and if he was built
up right he&#39;d be a great card over here. That&#39;s what I&#39;m
talking about, a
match between
their champ
and our champ
for the championship of the
world.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You don&#39;t mean match me with this Goulet?&quot;
said Jim.</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s exactly what I mean&quot; says Moon.
&quot;All right,&quot; says Jim: &quot;You&#39;re my matchmaker and I
fight who you pick out. But I don&#39;t see how you come to
overlook Benny Leonard.&quot;</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-3" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
<p>I staid round town and seen Larry two or three times,
&quot;It&#39;s going to be softer than I figured,&quot; he told me.
&quot;Those writers over in England has went cuckoo over the
Frenchman. They was so nuts about Bradford that they
think the guy that stopped him must be a cave man. And
our papers is printing all the junk and their readers falls
for it. As a matter of fact, I suppose Johnny Coulon could 
knock Bradford acrost the channel, but don&#39;t tell nobody
I said that. Though I guess they wouldn&#39;t believe it anyway.
The combination of what them big English reporters gh
say, along with Goulet being a war hero and handsome-well,
it&#39;s making him a popular idol in America.</p>
<p>&quot;But the thing&#39;s got to be nursed along and worked
up, and that&#39;s my job. It&#39;ll take time, but it&#39;ll be worth
it. The tough problem ain&#39;t getting the fans steamed up.
They&#39;ll take care of themselves. What I&#39;ve got to do is
convince some guy with money and a lot of nerve that it
would be a fight, not a murder. I&#39;ve already stuck one line
in the papers that I&#39;m proud of. Maybe you seen it. I
said that while Jim Dugan wasn&#39;t scared of nobody in the
world, still he felt like he ought to give the American contenders
first shot. Because this Goulet has showed that
he&#39;s got a wallop and he might land a lucky one on Jim.
And we&#39;d hate to see the title leave the old U. S. A. Not
so bad, was it?&quot;</p>
<p>A few weeks later it was in the papers that Goulet and
his manager, La Chance, was coming over. The picture
people had made the Frenchman a sweet offer and they
was no money to be picked up in France even for a
champion.</p>
<p>&quot;All I hope,&quot; said Moon, &quot;is that he won&#39;t get seasick.
Judging from his pictures, he ain&#39;t no side-show fat man at
best and we don&#39;t want him to look no skinnier than usual
or our match will be all wet.&quot;</p>
<p>Well, I don&#39;t know if he&#39;d been seasick or not, but he
certainly was a brittle-looking bird. The first time I seen
him, up to one of the roof shows, I thought the guy that
pointed him out must be mistaken. But it really was
him-a pale, frail boy that if he&#39;d went to college, the football
coaches would of rushed him for cheer leader. As
for him standing up in a box fight with the man that had
sprinkled Big Wheeler all over Ohio, well, it was just a
laugh.</p>
<p>&quot;You may as well forget it,&quot; I said when I seen Moon.
&quot;Your show&#39;s a flop and you won&#39;t get no backer.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Watch me,&quot; he says. &quot;Give me time and a
fair break in the luck!&quot;</p>
<p>So one day he calls up the hotel where the
Frenchman was staying and made a date with his
manager, La Chance.</p>
<p>&quot;Listen, Mr. La Chance,&quot; he said. &quot;If you&#39;ll
let me have a free hand, and you do what I say,
I can make some real money for you and me both.
Suppose I could get your man matched with Dugan.
&quot;How much would you want for your share?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I can&#39;t speak no English,&quot; said La Chance.</p>
<p>&quot;How about two hundred thousand dollars?&quot;
said Moon.</p>
<p>This time he really couldn&#39;t speak no English.
He&#39;d swooned.</p>
<p>They called the house physician and brought
him to and laid him on the bed.</p>
<p>&quot;A heart attack!&quot; says the Doc. &quot;Don&#39;t let
him get excited.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; said Larry. &quot;I guess I better go.&quot;</p>
<p>He started to follow the doctor out.</p>
<p>&quot;Wait a minute!&quot; says the sick man of Europe.</p>
<p>So Moon turned round and come back.</p>
<p>&quot;My heart&#39;s all right now,&quot; said La Chance. &quot;It was
just the first shock.</p>
<p>&quot;You made mention of a sum of money-two hundred
thousand-was it francs?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know nothing about francs,&quot; said Larry. &quot;I
asked you a plain question: Will your man fight my man
for two hundred thousand dollars?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How much would our share be?&quot; said La Chance.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m talking about your share,&quot; says Larry. &quot;Two
hundred thousand for you, draw, lose or get killed.&quot;</p>
<p>La Chance sprung at him with a kiss for both cheeks,
but Larry ducked away.</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ve got to let me run this,&quot; he said. &quot;You&#39;ve got
to put yourself in my hands and do everything I say.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Absolutely!&quot; says the Frenchman.</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; says Larry. &quot;Now, in the
first place, don&#39;t get the idear in your head
that this is going to be a quick clean-up.
It&#39;ll take time-maybe a year. What are
you fellas going to do when you&#39;ve finished
your picture?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said La Chance, &quot;we thought
maybe we&#39;d stay over here and have a few
fights.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No!&quot; says Larry. &quot;You go right back
home and don&#39;t fight nobody! You stay
there till you hear from me. I think it&#39;d be
a good idear for you to have one bout in
this country, to show that your man can
knock somebody besides that English
tumbler. But I&#39;ll pick out the man for
you to fight and I&#39;ll let you know when
I&#39;ve got him. He&#39;ll be somebody that you
can&#39;t help licking, not by no possible
chance. You won&#39;t get much money for it,
but it&#39;ll be advertising. Is that all right
with you?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Oui, oui,&quot; says La Chance. &quot;What
else?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Nothing else,” said Moon.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-4" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
<p>SEVERAL months is supposed to elapse
between these two acts. During this
time Dugan has to eat, so he takes on a
set-up out in Michigan and knocks him in
three rounds, or two rounds longer than
necessary. Also, they pick out a guy for
Goulet to trim-old Tommy Fogel. This
&quot;fight&quot; takes place over in Jersey and
Tommy surprises them. He manages to
stand up three rounds without his crutches.
The Frenchman looks fast as a streak and
everybody gets excited. People is saying
to each other, &quot;Even if he is a little light
he may be just the kind of a fighter that
would give Dugan trouble. He&#39;s in there
and out again like a flash and he&#39;s hard to
hit. Jim ain&#39;t never faced a man like him.
He&#39;s liable to run the big boy ragged.&quot;</p>
<p>A little w&#39;ile after this great battle Jim
and Larry get hungry again and they
accept an offer of a hundred thousand to
meet a big horse named Joe Barnes.
Dugan has knocked him before and can do
it again and they ain&#39;t much danger in
taking him on, though some of the wise
birds thinks different. They think Larry is
risking the title because Barnes is a guy
that fights five nights a week and he&#39;s
always in shape and he&#39;s so tough that
nobody ever did stop him except Jim himself.
As a matter of fact, Larry ain&#39;t running
no more risk than getting in a bath
tub. Because w&#39;ile all the wise guys know
that Jim can punch, what they don&#39;t seem
to realize is that he can take it.</p>
<p>Anyway, this bout with Barnes was in
the Big Town and Jim trained for it on a
ship and when he clumb in the ring he was
still at sea. In the second round Barnes
clipped him on the chin with all he had.
And all he had wasn&#39;t half what he needed.
After a w&#39;ile Dugan got his land legs and
begin to improve and he stopped Barnes in
the twelfth with a funny-looking punch to
the waistline. But they wasn&#39;t no time
during the scrap when he looked like him
self and I wouldn&#39;t be surprised if he was
under wraps as well as in bad shape.
However it happened, it made people think
Jim wasn&#39;t the fighter his friends claimed;
it made him look like he could be licked,
and that was a boost for the Goulet match.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-5" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
<p>THEY&#39;S a big steamship man, Robert
Crawley, that had kind a contract
with La Chance and Goulet. The agreement
was that if Goulet seen a chance for a
big match Crawley was to be the backer.
If he wanted to. If he didn&#39;t, he was to
step out.</p>
<p>Well, Crawley&#39;s got a partner, Bill
Guthrie, who Moon had met. So Moon
phones them that he has been in communication
with La Chance and La Chance
says his man is ready to fight Dugan if a
suitable purse is guaranteed.</p>
<p>&quot;I thought maybe you&#39;d like to talk it
over,&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>So Crawley and Guthrie said they would
and Moon asks them to come up and see
him in a couple of days.</p>
<p>&quot;Now,&quot; said Larry to me, &quot;I&#39;m going
way down town for lunch and you can
come along if you want to. But if you
don&#39;t like Spanish cooking you better stay
home.&quot;</p>
<p>So I went with him to a joint off lower
Broadway. They was a flock of Spanish
dishes on the bill of fare, but what Moon
ordered for him and I was plain ham and
eggs.</p>
<p>W&#39;ile the one waiter was out getting it,
Moon left me and went over to the guy
that had showed us to our table. They
talked together for pretty near a half hour
and I was through eating when Larry come
back. He took a look at his food and
passed it up.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve made a date with the head waiter
for half past two,&quot; he says. &quot;That&#39;s the
soonest he can get off. If you haven&#39;t
nothing to do you can go along with us.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where to?&quot; I asked him.</p>
<p>&quot;Shopping,&quot; he said.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I says, &quot;I guess I better stick
with you. When a man goes nuts he ought
to have a friend along.&quot;</p>
<p>So the two of us walked down to the
Battery and fooled round till it was time
to keep the date. We dropped in at the
restaurant again and come out with the
head waiter and the greasy bird that had
waited on us. We went over to Broadway
and got a taxi. Moon give the driver his
orders and we started uptown. We stopped
at Livington&#39;s.</p>
<p>&quot;Men&#39;s clothing,&quot; said Moon, and the
man showed us where to go.</p>
<p>Well, to cut it short, we was in there an
hour and when we come away our two
waiter friends had bundles containing a
complete new make-up-two silk hats,
Prince Albert coats, gray pants, fancy
shirts, ties that would knock you dead,
and collars like Senator Smoot&#39;s.</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s all to-day, boys,&quot; said Larry.
&quot;Here&#39;s twenty-five bucks apiece and
you&#39;ll each get seventy-five more tomorrow.
Don&#39;t forget nothing,&quot; he says to
the head waiter, &quot;and especially that
envelope I give you.&quot;</p>
<p>So we left them with their packages.</p>
<p>I was amongst those present the next
afternoon when Crawley and Guthrie
showed up. Moon had sent Dugan away.</p>
<p>&quot;Now,&quot; says Larry to our visitors, &quot;we
may as well get down to business. As I
told you over the phone, I been corresponding
with La Chance and he&#39;s willing
to fight us if he can get his price. But he
said I would have to let Mr. Crawley
handle the promotion. So I said that
suited me.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It don&#39;t look like a match,&quot; said
Crawley. &quot;Goulet&#39;s a great boy, but look
at the difference in size!&quot;</p>
<p>Moon laughed.</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;s nowheres near as much difference
as they was between Jim and Big
Wheeler,&quot; he says. &quot;And you know what
Jim done to him!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s all right,&quot; said Guthrie, &quot;but
your man weighs pretty near two hundred
and when a man&#39;s that big he&#39;s big enough
for anybody. But take a man that weighs
two hundred and put him against a man
that weighs round 165, and the difference
counts. Look at Johnson and Ketchel!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Now listen,&quot; says Larry. &quot;In the first
place, my man won&#39;t weigh 190 stripped;
he may tip the beam at ten or twelve
pounds more than that, but only in secret.
In the second place, if the public demands
the match, what do we care if the two men
stacks up together like a pimple and a
goiter?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s true enough,&quot; says Crawley.
&quot;If the public does want the match.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You know they want the match!&quot; said
Moon. &quot;Or if you don&#39;t I do. And promoters
wants it, too, from the number of
offers I&#39;ve had.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Offers from who?&quot; says Guthrie.</p>
<p>&quot;I ain&#39;t at liberty to tell,&quot; says Larry.
&quot;But it don&#39;t make no difference anyway.
You&#39;ve got first crack at it on account of
your contract. The question is, do you
want it?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, we want it,&quot; said Crawley. &quot;That
is, if we can get it at a reasonable figure.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m listening,&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Crawley, &quot;your man is
champion and entitled to the biggest share.
We&#39;d guarantee you a hundred thousand
and Goulet fifty.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I see what you mean,&quot; says Larry.
&quot;You mean you don&#39;t want to handle it
and you&#39;ll release Goulet.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where do you get that?&quot; says Guthrie.
&quot;We don&#39;t mean no such a thing! We&#39;re
making a legitimate offer and a good big
one.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;re kidding,&quot; says Larry. &quot;I got a
hundred thousand for the match with
Barnes and that was just a workout. But
forgetting me entirely, what about Goulet?
The least he&#39;ll take is two hundred thousand,
and if you don&#39;t believe it, cable his
manager.&quot;</p>
<p>Just then in come Larry&#39;s butler, or
whatever he is.</p>
<p>&quot;Two gentlemen to see you,&quot; he says.</p>
<p>&quot;Who is it?&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>&quot;Them two foreigners again,&quot; says the
man.</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, the two Cubans,&quot; said Larry.
&quot;Take them in the side room and tell them
to wait. Now,&quot; he says, &quot;where was we?
Oh, yes, I was telling you what La Chance
wants. If you don&#39;t care to take the
trouble to cable, here&#39;s a letter from
him.&quot;</p>
<p>And he give them a letter to read. When
they&#39;d read it he said: &quot;You see what he
says in there about you. He says Mr. Crawley
has treated him O.K. and he wants him
to have first refusal of this match. That&#39;s
the only reason I&#39;ve bothered you gentlemen.
Confidentially, I didn&#39;t think you&#39;d
want to handle a thing as big as this. So
just give us our release and they&#39;s nobody
hurt.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Who would you give it to?&quot; says
Guthrie.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; says Moon, &quot;I&#39;m going to tell
you men something, but I don&#39;t want it to
go no further. They&#39;s two men in the next
room that&#39;s been pestering me to death. I
promised they&#39;d have their final answer
to-day, but I didn&#39;t expect them to get
here till you fellas had left. When I got a
release from you, I was going to phone
Charley Riggs and tell him he could have
the match at our figure, which is $500,000.
That&#39;s the $200,000 Goulet demands, and
$300,000 for me. I know he&#39;ll take it at
that, but the only reason I&#39;m going to offer
it to him is to keep the match in this
country. Because I&#39;ve got a better offer
from outside.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where at?&quot; says Guthrie.</p>
<p>&quot;Havana, Cuba,&quot; says Larry. &quot;It&#39;s two
bankers from there that&#39;s in the next
room.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d like to meet them,&quot; says Guthrie.</p>
<p>&quot;I guess it&#39;d be all right,&quot; says Larry,
and he touched the button. &quot;One of them
can talk pretty fair English. He&#39;s the one
I been dealing with. But the other one, I
think, is the real money guy, though as far
as understanding him is concerned, he
might as well be a deaf mute. Show them
two gentlemen in here,&quot; he says to the
butler.</p>
<p>Well, they come in, dressed for a
wedding.</p>
<p>&quot;Hello there, gentlemen,&quot; says Larry,
shaking hands with them. &quot;I must apologize
for keeping you waiting. I was busy
with these two gentlemen here. Mr. Crawley
and Mr. Guthrie, meet Senior Lopez
and Senior Pancho, from Havana.&quot;</p>
<p>Senior Lopez pulled an envelope out of
his pocket and waved it.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ve had this tended to,” he says, &quot;and
I guess you&#39;ll find it all right.&quot;</p>
<p>He handed the envelope to Moon and
Moon opened it up. For all as I could see,
it was a regular certified check.</p>
<p>&quot;It looks all right,&quot; said Larry, and
waved it towards Guthrie and Crawley.
&quot;Six hundred thousand fish,&quot; he says,
&quot;and I wished it was all mine. But I
don&#39;t even know yet whether I&#39;m going to
let these gentlemen put it up or not. If the
seniors will pardon me, I&#39;ve got a little
telephoning to do, and then you can have
my answer, just as I promised. If I decide
on Havana we&#39;ll take the check down
town and leave it with one of the newspapers
over night, and deposit it tomorrow.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That satisfies us,&quot; says Senior Lopez,
and Senior Pancho mumbled something
that was probably Spanish for Swiss on
rye.</p>
<p>&quot;Now,&quot; says Larry to Crawley, &quot;I know
you and Mr. Guthrie will excuse me for
hurrying you off. I wished we could of
done business, but as long as we can&#39;t I&#39;ve
got to close with somebody else.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Would you mind waiting a minute?&quot;
says Crawley. &quot;Before you do anything, I&#39;d
like to have a word or two with Mr. Guthrie
and talk to you a moment in private.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; says Moon, &quot;I&#39;ve already kept
the seniors waiting quite a w&#39;ile.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s all right,&quot; says Lopez. &quot;We
don&#39;t mind a little wait as long as you
ain&#39;t going to disappoint us.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Then I&#39;ll take you in the other room,&quot;
says Larry, and we left Crawley and
Guthrie alone. In a few minutes they
called Larry back.</p>
<p>&quot;Now listen,&quot; said Guthrie: &quot;You said
something about cutting your price from
$600,000 to $500,000 to keep the fight in
America. You ain&#39;t doing that out of
patriotism!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You bet I ain&#39;t!&quot; says Moon. &quot;If I do
it, it&#39;ll be for two good reasons. One is that
all I&#39;ll get anyway is my $300,000; the
Cubans is so fair-minded that they want to
see Goulet get just as much as me. The
other reason is that Dugan&#39;s scared to
death of fever and he thinks Cuba&#39;s full of
it. He won&#39;t go there unless he has to.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Listen,&quot; says Guthrie; &quot;Mr. Crawley
and I have decided to make you a flat offer
of $500,000 for this match. If you and
La Chance are satisfied with this we&#39;ll put
up a forfeit of $100,000 to-morrow.&quot;</p>
<p>Moon waited a w&#39;ile before he spoke.</p>
<p>&quot;Would you guarantee to hold the
match in America?&quot; he says.</p>
<p>&quot;Either here or in London,&quot; says
Crawley.</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;s no fever in London?&quot; says Moon.</p>
<p>&quot;I should say not!&quot; says Crawley.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; says Moon, &quot;if I can hold the
Cubans off one more day I&#39;ll consider it.
I could meet you to-morrow and you could
deposit your check.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That suits us,&quot; says Crawley, and they
shook hands and left.</p>
<p>Larry joined us in the other room and
ordered drinks all round.</p>
<p>&quot;You boys done fine!&quot; he says to the
two seniors. &quot;Here&#39;s the rest of your hundred
apiece and I&#39;m much obliged.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Will we send you these clothes?&quot; says
Senior Lopez.</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; says Larry. &quot;You keep them for
the next big fight.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;And how about your check?&quot; says
Lopez.</p>
<p>&quot;Try and cash it!&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s over,&quot; he says, when they&#39;d
went. &quot;The next thing is to land Charley
Riggs.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What for?&quot; says I.</p>
<p>&quot;Why, to promote this match,&quot; said
Larry. &quot;He&#39;s the guy I&#39;ve been after all
the time, the only guy that&#39;s big enough to
put it over. But I didn&#39;t dast go after him
without something to show. When he sees
that these birds is willing to put up half a
million fish he&#39;ll know it&#39;s big enough for
him.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;But how are you going to shake them
out?&quot; I asked.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t care if they&#39;re shook out or not,
as long as he&#39;s in,&quot; says Moon. &quot;But you
can bet they&#39;ll be glad enough to take him
in as partner, and that&#39;s all I want. When
I get him we&#39;re set!&quot;</p>
<p>Well, as you know, he got him, and it
wasn&#39;t no job to shake the other two out.
When they talked five hundred thousand,
they was over their heads. And when they
begin thinking about expenses, and the
conversation got up round a million, they
was sunk.</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-6" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
<p>It WAS early spring when I run acrost
Larry again.</p>
<p>&quot;I been wanting to see you,&quot; he says.
&quot;What are you going to be doing in June?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t know,&quot; I said. &quot;Just loafing, I
guess.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; he said, &quot;would you mind doing
your loafing at our camp?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What camp?&quot; I asked him.</p>
<p>&quot;Wherever we train,&quot; he says. &quot;Somewheres near New York, I suppose.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where are you going to fight?&quot; I asked.</p>
<p>&quot;In Jersey,&quot; he says. &quot;They&#39;s nowheres
else we can. We got to be near the Big
Town to get the money.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How about all them offers?&quot; I says.</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, you mean the ones that&#39;s been in
the papers?&quot; said Moon. &quot;Wasn&#39;t those a
hit? A million dollars from Nugget, Nevada!
Why, if a guy showed a nickel in that
town, the whole twelve that lives there
would blackjack him at once!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you want of me?&quot; I said.</p>
<p>&quot;Jim needs sparring partners,&quot; says
Larry.</p>
<p>&quot;I may look goofy to you,&quot; I said, &quot;but
I pass for all right round home.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I was kidding,&quot; said Larry. &quot;What Jim
wants is somebody he can talk to and play
rummy with. It&#39;s going to be a lonesome
time for him and I don&#39;t know if he can
stand it or not. But he likes you and having
you there once in a w&#39;ile would be a
help.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; I said. &quot;I&#39;ll keep him company part of the time.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You know,&quot; says Larry, &quot;even the wise
birds thinks this is easy money for Jim.
But it&#39;s going to be about the toughest
money anybody ever earned.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean?&quot; I says. &quot;You
don&#39;t think the Frenchman has a chance!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t be silly!&quot; says Larry. &quot;That&#39;s
just the point. If it was like the Wheeler
thing, where the guy was a big hulk that it
might take some trouble to topple him
over, why training for it wouldn&#39;t be such a
grind. Jim would say to himself, &#39;Well, I
guess I can lick him all right, but he&#39;s big
and I better be in good shape. Because he
might⁠—&#39; You know how it was that
time. But this is different. Here&#39;s a guy
that may be the greatest man in the world
for his size. But look at his size and yet
Jim&#39;s got to go ahead and work like he done
for Wheeler. Even harder, because they&#39;s
a lot more interest in this and people&#39;ll be
watching us close. Jim could get ready in a
week to knock this bird cold. But he&#39;s got
to go through with five or six weeks of the
toughest kind of work, which he knows
ain&#39;t necessary. I&#39;ve tried to convince him
that they might be an upset. But he knows
it&#39;s the bunk.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;if I haven&#39;t nothing better
to do I&#39;ll come round and try and keep
him entertained. But personally, I don&#39;t
know no work I wouldn&#39;t be glad to stick at
for five weeks, not at them kind of wages.&quot;</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-7" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
<p>I LANDED in Jim&#39;s camp the second
week in June. The day I got there he
boxed with three of his partners. Two of
them was big boys and he flattened them
both.</p>
<p>We was all alone that evening and he
opened up his heart.</p>
<p>&quot;Goulet&#39;s got the right idear,&quot; he says:
&quot;Secret training. I wished we could pull
that. My training would be such a secret
that I wouldn&#39;t even find out about it myself.
But Larry says no. I&#39;ve got to show
the boys I&#39;m working so they won&#39;t think
it&#39;s a farce. Like it wasn&#39;t a farce already!
Anyway it is for me-punching the bag and
shadow boxing and skipping the rope. You
ain&#39;t got no idear how cute I feel skipping a
rope! I suppose I ought to thank God they
don&#39;t make me roll a hoop or dress dolls.
But even skipping a rope ain&#39;t as bad as
boxing with those heels! If I try not to hit
them, the crowd thinks I ain&#39;t giving them
a run for their money. And if I get my
glove close enough to their beezer so they
can smell it, over they go! Then the crowd
thinks I&#39;m too rough!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; I said, &quot;they&#39;s only three more
weeks of it. And think of the dough and
the glory!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;The dough part&#39;s all right,&quot; he says.
&quot;Whatever&#39;s left of it I can use. But glory!
That&#39;s a laugh. You don&#39;t kid me with that
line of talk. I&#39;ve got the low-down on the
whole works. Here I am, an American
that&#39;s supposed to be fighting to keep the
title in this country, and I doubt if they&#39;s a
dozen Americans that ain&#39;t pulling for me
to get knocked for a corpse. Sometimes I
almost feel like I ought to let myself get
licked. It would be doing everybody such a
big favor and make them all happy. But
how could I go about it? If the guy was big
and had a real haymaker I could take one
and flop. But I can&#39;t play dead from a kiss.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;ll be surprised,&quot; I said, &quot;if he nails
you in the chin and drops you.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Surprised ain&#39;t the word!&quot; said Dugan.
&quot;I mean, if he drops me. I expect to get
hit; on the chin too. Because I ain&#39;t no
defensive fighter. I go in there to get my
man and in order to get him I&#39;m willing to
take what he&#39;s got. And listen: I&#39;ve been
hit on the chin before, and not by children,
neither. But I hardly ever lay down unless
it&#39;s bedtime.&quot;</p>
<p>I asked him how long he expected the
fight to go.</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t call it a fight,&quot; he says, &quot;not
when you and I are alone. Whatever it is
will go a round or two rounds or three
rounds, depending on how he behaves himself.
If he wants to tear in and get it over
quick, I&#39;m willing. But no matter how long
it goes-whether he lays himself wide open
so as I can knock him in a round, or whether
he keeps away for four or five-you can
mark my words that they won&#39;t be no glory
for me in winning. He&#39;s a great fighter now!
A cave man! But after I&#39;ve knocked him
he&#39;ll be a bum. Because anybody I can lick
can&#39;t be no good.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You&#39;re brooding too much,&quot; I said.</p>
<p>&quot;Let&#39;s play cards and forget it,&quot; he says.
&quot;Though it does me good to talk once in a
w&#39;ile. When I don&#39;t talk I worry.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What about?&quot; I asked him.</p>
<p>&quot;Oh, the &#39;big fight,&quot; he says.</p>
<p>&quot;But what&#39;s they about that to worry
you?&quot; I asked.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, for one thing,&quot; he said, &quot;I&#39;m
scared they won&#39;t put enough padding in
the floor. I&#39;ve read of cases where a guy got
knocked and hit his bean on the floor and
passed out entirely. And the guy that
knocked him was held for murder. And
another thing: I&#39;m scared it may not come
off after all. He may get sick.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What would make him sick?&quot; I says.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said Dugan, &quot;he may read what
the girl reporters has been writing about
him.&quot;</p>
</section>
<section id="the-battle-of-the-century-8" epub:type="z3998:subchapter">
<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
<p>You know what Barnum said. Well, he
didn&#39;t go far enough. They like to be
bunked, but what they like most of all is to
bunk themselves.</p>
<p>Set round some night amongst the boys
when they&#39;re easing their way through a
bottle of near Johnny Walker at eighteen
fish the copy. Pretty soon you&#39;ll hear
this:</p>
<p>&quot;Well, fellas, in another year we&#39;ll be
leaning up against the old mahogany again,
tipping over regular highballs or real beer.&quot;</p>
<p>And this:</p>
<p>&quot;If they&#39;d ever leave prohibition to a
vote of the people! But they don&#39;t dast!&quot;</p>
<p>Well, I was in New York for three days
prior to the &quot;big fight,&quot; and four or five
days afterwards, and anybody that was
there had to take a course in human nature.
I didn&#39;t learn much that I hadn&#39;t suspected
before, but whatever doubts I may of had
was removed once and for all.</p>
<p>The plain facts was this: A good big man
was going to fight a little man that nobody
knew if he was good or not, and the good
big man was bound to win and win easy
unless he had a sunstroke.</p>
<p>But the little man was a war hero, which
the big man certainly wasn&#39;t. And the little
man was romantic, besides being one of the
most likable guys you&#39;d want to meet-even
if he did have a Greek profile and long
eyelashes.</p>
<p>So they was only one logical answer,
namely that Goulet, the little man, would
just about kill Dugan, the big man, maybe
by a sudden display of superhuman stren&#39;th
which he had been holding back all his life
for this one fight, but more likely by some
mysterious trick which no other fighter had
ever thought of before, because in order to
think of it you had to have a French brain
and long eyelashes. If Goulet wasn&#39;t going
to win, what did him and his manager
mean by smiling so much and looking so
happy? Of course the two hundred thousand
fish had nothing to do with it.</p>
<p>They&#39;s two reasons why I didn&#39;t talk
back to them. One was that I haven&#39;t no
breath to waste, and the other was that I
don&#39;t like to make enemies, which you&#39;re
bound to do that whenever you tell somebody
something they don&#39;t want to believe.
A lot of the fight reporters found this
out. Contrary to the general belief, they&#39;s
a good many American fight writers that
knows more about fights and fighters than
even Bernard Shaw. Pretty near all of
them come right out in print and said
Goulet didn&#39;t have a chance. In return for
which they got a hat full of letters calling
them every name that could get through
the mails.</p>
<p>You seen the fight yourself. Personally,
I haven&#39;t made up my mind whether
Dugan done it as quick as he could, or
whether he held back a w&#39;ile to make it
look like the guy was something more than
a push-over. I ain&#39;t seen Jim to ask him.
And I only seen Moon once, and then all
he said was &quot;Didn&#39;t I tell you!&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Tell me what?&quot; I said.</p>
<p>&quot;That I was doing Charley Riggs a
favor, coaxing him into this,&quot; says Larry.</p>
<p>Well, I guess he was. With all the trimming
Charley took from one guy and another,
he must of came out with a profit for
himself and his backer of something like
half a million. And not only that, but the
way he handled it put him in a class by
himself as a promoter. The big fights to
come will be staged by Charley or they
won&#39;t be big fights.</p>
<p>That&#39;s all, except a little incidence of a
man that set beside me coming back in the
tube.</p>
<p>&quot;A great fight!&quot; he says.</p>
<p>&quot;Yes, it was,&quot; said I.</p>
<p>&quot;The Frenchman showed up pretty
good,&quot; he says, &quot;though I had a kind of an
idear that he&#39;d win. I see now where I was
foolish.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How&#39;s that?&quot; I asked him.</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; he said, &quot;the way I&#39;ve got it
figured out, he wasn&#39;t big enough.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;By gosh!&quot; I said. &quot;I believe you&#39;ve hit
the nail right on the head!&quot;</p>
</section>
</article>
</body>
</html>