<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Venomous Viper of the Volga</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="the-venomous-viper-of-the-volga" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Venomous Viper of the Volga</h2>
<p>In early October, Luke Lewis, prominent promoter in
what Bill McGeehan calls the cauliflower industry, conferred
with little Sandy King, his press-agent and right-hand man.</p>
<p>&quot;We got to make different plans,&quot; said Luke. &quot;I figured the
new champ would be good for one sell-out in the Arena this
winter and at least one big outdoor show in May or June. But
you seen what happened last night. He makes his first public
appearance since winning the title, and he gets booed. People
don&#39;t want a champion that&#39;s interested in this here anesthetic
dancing and bee culture. Match him with anybody but Ryan
and he wouldn&#39;t draw flies. What we got to do is leave him
lay for a year, till we can put him and Ryan on in a return
match.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;If I was a fighter,&quot; said Sandy, &quot;I wouldn&#39;t want to
rest a whole year. I&#39;d be afraid I&#39;d forget all I knew about
fighting.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It would hurt some fighters,&quot; said the boss, &quot;but they&#39;s others
that ain&#39;t got nothing to forget. That&#39;s none of my business,
though,&quot; he continued. &quot;What&#39;s bothering me is how to keep
the public awake till next fall without giving them a championship
bout.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Too bad you can&#39;t match Burton and Cook,&quot; said Sandy.</p>
<p>The Cook he referred to was Jem Cook, a colored gentleman
known as the Black Bull of Biloxi. He had never whipped any
one but his children, he was middle-aged and slow, his &quot;fighting&quot;
was in such flagrant violation of all rules that even the referees
found fault with it, and yet a large portion of Fistic Fandom,
or Moronia, had long regarded him as the logical contender for
the title recently wrested from Jack Ryan by Beau Burton, the
Student Prince.</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;s no place you could hold it,&quot; Luke said. &quot;And further
and more, Cook is going to fight Teddy Walsh in Buffalo next
week and that means good night Cook. Larry Woltz is the
referee. He was born in the South and he&#39;ll see that it&#39;s a fair
fight even if he has to tape the black boy&#39;s wrists with a pair of
handcuffs.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How about a series of trials? Make a list of all the heavyweights
we can think of, match them up with each other through
the winter and spring, and then, whoever comes through, why,
he can meet Ryan. And whichever wins between he and Ryan
gets the big match with the Beau.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Of course that idear has occurred to me,&quot; said Luke. “I
guess it&#39;s the only solution. But you know they ain&#39;t three
heavies in the country that could knock the ashes off a cigar,
and the public don&#39;t like big fellas that can&#39;t hit.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Jimmy Donohue can hit.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I said big fellas. Donohue claims one hundred and seventy-five
pounds, but I bet you could put him and a cow on the scales
together and they wouldn&#39;t weigh one-seventy. Suppose I was
to let him in the competition and he beat all these hams, why,
it would be a joke to match him with Ryan.&quot;..</p>
<p>&quot;Well, there was Carpenteer and Dempsey.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Carpenteer was a frog and that makes all the difference.
Just tell people that So-and-So is champion of France or Paraguay
and they&#39;ll break down your gates even if they know the fella
had to be brought off the ship in a wheel-chair. Get me a guy
from some place abroad and I&#39;m all set. I mean any place but
England; when you mention an English champ, everybody
thinks of Joe Beckett and takes it as a joke. If somebody would
spring up in Spain or Greece or somewheres⁠—But as long as
none of those birds are in sight, we better begin figuring on what
we&#39;ve got here, and then it&#39;ll be a tough job to fix up some preliminary
matches for them that ain&#39;t too silly and yet not too
dangerous. Who do you suggest?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I was thinking of Fitzgerald and Moran.&quot;</p>
<p>Frankie Fitzgerald, a Rumanian known as Fitchburg&#39;s Fighting
Fool, and Mike Moran, the Malden Murderer, were a pair of
200-pounders who had been seen together in so many New
England rings that Dame Rumor whispered they must be betrothed.
It was said that on one occasion, three or four years
ago, the Murderer, who had got his sobriquet from a childhood
practise of stepping on ants, had tripped in a tear in the canvas
and sunk to one knee, but the Fighting Fool had restored him
to plumb before the astounded referee began to count. This
was the only incident remembered by patient eye-witnesses of
the couple&#39;s hundred-odd rounds of petting.</p>
<p>&quot;We&#39;ll have to include them because of the general shortage,&quot;
said Luke. &quot;But we&#39;ll also have to find somebody for each of
them to lick before we dast bring them together again. And
that&#39;s going to be quite a chore.</p>
<p>&quot;Why not have Fitzgerald beat Donohue, and Moran win
from Eddie Brock?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Donohue and Brock would have to foul
them.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, they wouldn&#39;t mind doing that
if it was worth their while. Donohue is
really a middleweight and Brock is a welter,
and it wouldn&#39;t hurt neither of their reputations
to lose to guys that outweighs the
entire Notre Dame football squad.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;All right,&quot; agreed Luke. &quot;We&#39;ll start to
work along those lines and hope for the
best. But meanw&#39;ile, you watch the papers
and if you run acrost any news from abroad
that might relieve the situation, remember
where you get your pay. And in order so
you won&#39;t overlook nothing, I&#39;ll make you
a proposition: Find me a foreigner that
ain&#39;t absolutely impossible, and I&#39;ll give
you a cash bonus of five grand.&quot;</p>
<p>The conference was over and the diminutive
Sandy left the office to keep a luncheon
engagement with one Mabel Ives, to whom,
for no apparent reason, he was paying court.
On the way, he thought a great deal about
Mabel and very little about his employer&#39;s talk, until suddenly
Luke&#39;s last words recurred to him.</p>
<p>&quot;Five grand!&quot; he said to himself. &quot;Why, with that amount
of money in one lump, I could marry her without going into debt.
I&#39;ll certainly dig him up a wop or an Armenian if I have to comb
Newark!&quot;</p>
<p>But such a desperate measure proved unnecessary, thanks to
Miss Ives. She insisted on spending the afternoon at the Palace,
though Sandy would much rather have gone to a picture theater
because picture theaters are dark. (Miss Ives&#39; style of beauty
was shown to its best advantage in the dark, but that wasn&#39;t
why Sandy wanted her there.) Anyway, she made him take her
to the Palace and t was lucky she did, from Sandy&#39;s astigmatic
point of view, for the third number on the bill brought him to
the end of his quest, if so brief and inert a search may be dignified
by that term.</p>
<p>&quot;Prentiss, Master Ventriloquist&quot; was the title of the act, but
it was not Prentiss and his laryngeal chicanery that impressed
little King. It was the physique and diabolic and exotic appearance
of an anonymous member of Prentiss&#39;s scant troupe, who
played, none too well, the part of a silent sentry in the unusually
elaborate Arabian scene which the Master evidently considered
essential to proper exposition of high-class ventriloquism.</p>
<p>&quot;There&#39;s the big fella I want!&quot; said Sandy.</p>
<p>&quot;Shut up and let me enjoy the show, or you won&#39;t be the little
fella <em>I</em> want!&quot; said his girl friend.</p>
<p>Sandy sat impatiently through the rest of the bill and was
actually glad Mabel had a date that evening with her ukulele
teacher.</p>
<p>Harry Soule, stage-manager at the Palace, was a hot fight fan
and Sandy had often given him tickets to Arena shows. So it
was easy to get back stage and arrange a meeting with Prentiss&#39;s
big aid.</p>
<p>&quot;But what do you want of the big bum?&quot; asked the curious
Soule. &quot;Are you thinking of making a fighter out of him?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No, no,&quot; replied Sandy with a mendacious laugh. &quot;I&#39;m
trying to locate his brother, who used to work for us.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;The big bum,&quot; Henry Goetz by name,
was shy at first. He was not accustomed
to being wanted by anybody and it seemed
unlikely that the little visitor boded well.
However, Sandy managed to coax him to
a thinly disguised saloon and there to warm
him into a less diffident mood.</p>
<p>It developed that he was twenty-four
years old, that he had been born in Pennsylvania,
that his father&#39;s ancestors were
German and that his mother&#39;s people,
way back, had lived in Russia. Prentiss
was paying him thirty dollars a week, but
his engagement was for one week only, as
the Master found it possible and economical
to break in a new silent sentry at each
stand. He had graduated from school at
the age of nine and since then had sold
newspapers, washed cars, painted barns,
worked in a mine and enjoyed vacations
lasting anywhere from one to four years.
He was six feet two, weighed 208 pounds
and had not been in a fight since he was
old enough to apologize.</p>
<p>&quot;I don&#39;t suppose you&#39;d mind making a lot of money,&quot; said
Sandy.</p>
<p>&quot;How?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Boxing. A fella with your build and stren&#39;th is a sucker not
to go in the fight game. Especially when they look as much
like a fighter as you do. When I seen you on the stage this
afternoon, I thought you must be a champion fighter from somewheres
in Europe, just doing this thing for fun.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Who would I have to fight?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Nobody you can&#39;t lick. That is, at first. You&#39;d be matched
with a couple of push-overs and you&#39;d
make twenty or thirty thousand dollars. And
then you&#39;d be in line for the big clean-up,
seventy-five or a hundred thousand at least.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What clean-up?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;A match with Jack Ryan.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Jack Ryan! Say, my parents is both dead
and I ain&#39;t got no other heirs.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Don&#39;t be silly! It&#39;s very seldom a man is
killed boxing.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Just once would be more than enough.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Listen: You&#39;ve got a great chance to make a
barrel of money with very little work. If you do
as I say, in less than a year from now you&#39;ll be
fixed so as you won&#39;t never have to think of
another job. And I&#39;ll guarantee that Ryan
won&#39;t do anything to you that you can&#39;t get
over in two days&#39; time. You look like a pretty
bright fella, but if you&#39;re even half-witted, you
can&#39;t turn down a proposition like this.&quot;</p>
<p>Well, influenced by Mr. King&#39;s eloquence,
the speak-easy&#39;s thirty-proof Scotch and probably
by a desire to prove himself half-witted,
Henry Goetz finally said yes and promised to
put his immediate future in Sandy&#39;s small
hands, his salary to be fifty dollars a week until
the heavy money began to roll in.</p>
<p>Inasmuch as Sandy&#39;s own pay was only a
hundred and it took every cent of it to buy his
clothes, lodging and food, and entertainment
for Miss Ives, he realized he could not swing his
undertaking without help. And next afternoon
found him closeted with Willie Troy, a
boxing impresario with a bank-roll, a real
ability to develop &quot;prospects&quot; and a boyish delight
in pranks.</p>
<p>Troy was interested and became more so
when introduced to Goetz. The latter was
certainly big enough and, in spite of his
Pennsylvania nativity, looked as alien and
homicidal as a taxi driver.</p>
<p>&quot;Have you got any friends?&quot; Troy asked
him.</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; said the erstwhile trouper.</p>
<p>&quot;I didn&#39;t think so,&quot; said Troy. &quot;But if you
had, I was going to warn you to keep away
from them and not let them know where you&#39;re
at or what you&#39;re doing. From now on you&#39;re
a Russian, your name is Ivan Ivanovitch and
your nickname is &#39;The Venomous Viper of the
Volga.&#39;&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You no spika de English,&quot; put in Sandy.</p>
<p>&quot;No,&quot; agreed Troy. &quot;You don&#39;t talk at all.
Whatever remarks are addressed to you, you
shake your head and act dumb. I don&#39;t believe
that will take many rehearsals.&quot;</p>
<p>The Viper became an inmate of the Troy
home in the Bronx, which boasted gymnasium
space and paraphernalia necessary to a primary
education in the manly art. And Sandy King
wrote himself a long letter from a mythical
friend in Berlin, describing a recent bout between
Franz Reum, leading Teutonic heavyweight,
and Ivan Ivanovitch, young champion
of all the Russias, wherein the German had
been knocked cold in Round Two and had remained
unconscious for an hour and twelve
minutes. Enclosed were snap-shots of the new
Slav fistic marvel, posed in the almost altogether
and displaying a muscular development
that reminded one of Monty Munn and the
elder Zbyszko.</p>
<p>&quot;Funny they ain&#39;t been nothing in the
papers about this guy,&quot; said Luke Lewis when
he had read the letter and studied the pictures.</p>
<p>&quot;There will be,&quot; said Sandy. &quot;I hear he&#39;s
coming to this country the first of the year.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Where did you hear that?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;From Willie Troy. Willie has known about
him quite a w&#39;ile. And he&#39;s been in correspondence
with his manager in regards to the
American rights.&quot;</p>
<p>The promoter looked his little employee
straight in the eye.</p>
<p>&quot;Listen, Sandy,&quot; he said: &quot;I don&#39;t care if
your Russian is a Dane from Milwaukee or a
Mexican from Montreal, or if his name is
Ginsberg or Mussolini. Judging from these
photos, he&#39;s just about what I want—a big,
tough numskull with the face of an assassin
and foreign labels stuck all over him. When
you and Willie are ready, bring him around
and if he&#39;s anything like his pictures, I&#39;ll give
you your five grand and do business with
Troy.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I forgot to tell you what they call him—the
Venomous Viper of the Volga.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Who calls him?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;The fight fans over in Russia.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, it&#39;s a good name even if you and Troy
did make it up. It&#39;s enough to sell him if he
didn&#39;t have that build and mush to go with it.
On second thoughts, I&#39;ll take a chance on him
sight unseen. I&#39;ll give you your check now and
I don&#39;t want to look at your fighter till I go
down with Troy to meet him at the boat. You
realize, of course, that he can&#39;t land here from
Russia without getting off a boat.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No trouble about that. Troy has been over
and back a hundred times and knows most of
the captains. The Viper will be taken on at
Quarantine, during the night. And by that
time he&#39;ll have a Russian manager who can talk
enough broken English to entertain the newspaper
boys.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;One more suggestion—you ought to get him
tattooed. Pretty near all foreigners is tattooed.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Does it hurt?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;No. Why?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, I got an idear that Ivan can&#39;t stand
pain.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s a good trait in a fighter,&quot; said Luke.</p>
<p>&quot;It means quick knock-outs, which is what
people wants to see.&quot;</p>
<p>In the Sunday papers there were pictures of
the new Russian peril, with stories of his impressive
triumphs at home and announcements
of his impending American visit. These
appeared in December, just after football,
when the sport editors were glad to print anything
that was not a final, last, conclusive
ultimatum from Judge Landis to Ban Johnson,
or vice versa.</p>
<p>And up in the Bronx, Willie Troy was patiently
trying to instruct the Viper in the
fundamentals of boxing, a sport which the
late Mr. Goetz took to as naturally as a walrus
to needlework.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;m afraid,&quot; the teacher told Sandy, &quot;that
when the newspaper boys sees him in the ring,
they&#39;ll give him a new nickname. They&#39;ll call
him Ivan the Terrible.&quot;</p>
<p>The first of the trial battles was put on after
the usual petty annoyances. Principals in
this match were Eddie Brock and the Malden
Murderer, Moran. The boxing solons came
out in flat-footed, flat-headed opposition to
the encounter. It seemed there was too great
a disparity in size. Moran weighed 206 and
Brock about 149. Much discussion and deep
thought were required before the master minds
found a solution that ought to have been
obvious from the start, namely that Brock, a
welterweight, be obliged to train down to the
welterweight limit of 147 pounds.</p>
<p>Then, a week prior to the date of the bout,
the Murderer&#39;s manager announced it was all
off—his man had eaten a bedridden oyster.
The truth was that a report had reached camp
that Brock, who promised to commit all the
fouls in the book no later than the third
round, was betting on himself not only to
win, but to win by a knockout. The welter
was indignant when this came to his ears and
he hastened to dispel the effects of the ptomaine
poisoning by visiting Moran&#39;s quarters and
assuring the coy Murderer that he was not
that kind of crook.</p>
<p>&quot;Why, I&#39;m betting on you, big boy,&quot; he
said. &quot;I&#39;m betting five thousand dollars of
my own money and I had to give two to one.
Do you think I&#39;d lay odds against myself if I
wasn&#39;t sure to lose!&quot;</p>
<p>And Brock won his wager and speeded
Moran on his way to another well-lined purse
by punching him three times just above the
knee and climaxing the performance with a
blow that broke skin already frayed by a
garter&#39;s metal. It had to be done a round
ahead of schedule, too, for the Murderer had
trained on roast goose, mince pie and caramels
and would have foundered in another three
minutes.</p>
<p>The Viper of the Volga &quot;arrived&quot; in this
country early in January. He was accompanied
by his native manager and interpreter,
Dmitri Sashoff, who in a former existence had
been Fred Lister, a head waiter in a café of
Troy&#39;s at Providence, and whose Russian
vocabulary consisted of the word &quot;ruble.&quot;
Luke Lewis, Sandy King, Troy and a crowd
of writers, camera men and fans were on hand
to welcome the latest European sensation,
but the latter, it seemed, had not slept well
on board and his present ambition was to
hurry to his hotel and rest. Troy, who was to
handle him here, would not allow him to go to
a hotel, where he might be pestered by enthusiastic
admirers, but insisted on taking
him at once to his own home in the Bronx,
where reporters would be welcome to see him
in a few days. The Viper emitted a couple of
growls which were interpreted as regrets that
he could speak no English and expressions of
good will to those who had come to meet him,
and was then whisked out to the Troy establishment,
which he had left the previous afternoon.</p>
<p>&quot;He&#39;ll have to be introduced from the
ring,&quot; said Luke to Willie Troy. &quot;We may as
well do that Thursday night, just before
Burke and Williams come on.</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll bring him in for the introduction and
take him out right afterwards,&quot; said Troy.
&quot;He never seen a fight in his life and he mustn&#39;t
see one yet, not till I&#39;ve got him more in hand.
What I&#39;m trying to do is make him scareder
of me than of fighting itself. I&#39;ll have him
that way in a couple more weeks, but if we
don&#39;t handle him carefully we&#39;ll lose our meal
ticket before it&#39;s punched full of holes.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;How about announcing that he&#39;s matched
to box Teddy Walsh in the next big show?&quot;
said Luke.</p>
<p>&quot;Announce it if you want to as long as you
don&#39;t mean it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Of course I don&#39;t mean it. But people
will take more notice of him if he&#39;s got a good
match in sight. And I&#39;ll get Walsh to sprain
his wrist or something and force an indefinite
postponement.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;The postponement will have to be more
than indefinite. It&#39;ll have to be endless.
Because no matter how hard Walsh tried not
to, he&#39;d just naturally murder my pet snake.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;What time of day does he work?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;The Viper? All day long, three hours in
the morning and three in the afternoon. I
don&#39;t let up on him a minute.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;d like to see him box sometime.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;So would I,&quot; said Willie Troy.</p>
<p>The clash between Barney Williams and
Red Burke was supposed to be one of the
trials, though Luke Lewis had no intention of
allowing either of them to cut in on the big
money that the outdoor season promised.
They were at least as good as any of the other
contenders—barring Donohue and Brock,
whose poverty of bulk made them undesirable—but
they had not always been loyal to Luke.
So he hoped their engagement would result
in a double knockout, eliminating them both.</p>
<p>However, he temporarily forgot his grudge
against them in delight over the ovation accorded
the immigrant Ivan when the latter
was conducted into the Arena ring by Willie
Troy and introduced by the official announcer
as &quot;The Ven-ominous Viper of the Vodka.&quot;
Ivan all but took his first dive while trying to
negotiate the unaccustomed ropes, but the
fans overlooked his awkwardness and cheered
him to the echo because he was new and bore
such a striking resemblance to a fight crowd&#39;s
common grandpa, the ape.</p>
<p>Ivan wanted to stay and see the wind-up,
but Troy hustled him out of the building, saying
the Arena air was bad for a man in training,
and besides it was way past his bedtime. This
strategy was well advised, for the Williams-Burke
battle would have dissuaded a much
stouter-hearted youth than the Viper from
pursuing the manly art as a means of livelihood.
The contestants were in dead earnest
and went at it like a pair of vicious dogs.
There were four spills and much letting of
blood before Burke ended it by knocking his
opponent into the lap of one of the judges.
All this in the first, and last, round of fighting.</p>
<p>Willie Troy had long since given up hope of
imbuing his pupil either with gladiatorial
spirit or sparring skill. He was a clever boxer
himself and had been a successful instructor
of many green and awkward but willing young
men. The Viper was as unwilling as he was
awkward and green and Troy soon came to
the conclusion that it was a waste of time and
effort to try to teach him blocking, ducking,
footwork or any of the other requisites of an
effective defense. He decided to concentrate
on the development of a punch, which seemed
comparatively simple in the case of a man
with arm and shoulder muscles as mighty as
Ivan&#39;s. However, it took all Willie&#39;s powers
of persuasion to get his charge to cut loose
and strike with his full strength, and even
then the only dangerous wallop educed was a
roundhouse swing that only a sound sleeper
or a paralytic could have failed to evade.</p>
<p>Luke Lewis was becoming impatient and it
was impossible to stall him any longer.</p>
<p>&quot;Here it is February, the winter is half
gone and your Viper ain&#39;t even matched,&quot; he
complained.</p>
<p>&quot;Well, go ahead and match him,&quot; said
Willie resignedly. &quot;But I warn you that they
ain&#39;t a man living he can beat without the
man&#39;s consent.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;I&#39;ll get the consent all right,&quot; promised
Luke. &quot;All I ask is for you to have your fella
ready to show the newspaper boys something.
If they don&#39;t see him work out, they&#39;ll smell
a rat.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;They&#39;ll smell a whole lot less fragranter
rat if they do,&quot; said Troy.</p>
<p>At this stage of the proceedings they got a
lucky break. Duke Wallace, manager of
Manuel Martinez, paid Troy a visit. Martinez,
an import from Indiana, had &quot;come over&quot;
three or four years ago and won high public
favor by beating all the domestic set-ups in a
series of bouts marked by brevity and bloodshed.
With a glowing future, he had suddenly
announced his retirement and had given no
reason. Now, said Wallace, he wanted to
reenter the ring.</p>
<p>&quot;He&#39;s hard up,&quot; his manager explained.
&quot;He wants just one more match so his family
won&#39;t starve. I heard you was developing
some new foreigner and I wondered if we
couldn&#39;t get together.&quot;</p>
<p>They could and did.</p>
<p>&quot;Luke will favor fifteen rounds,” said Wallace,
&quot;but if it&#39;s the same to you, we&#39;ll hold
out for ten. The truth is that the Rugged
Rock has got galloping consumption and it
might be risky to keep him in there too long.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;It would certainly be a bad thing for the
game in this state to have a man die fighting,&quot;
said Troy, &quot;but it looks to me like the best
idea is to let both Luke and the public think
the bout is for fifteen rounds and Martinez
can save himself a lot of punishment by taking
his dive in Round One.&quot;</p>
<p>This arrangement proved satisfactory to the
Rock&#39;s manager.</p>
<p>&quot;And listen,&quot; added Troy. &quot;It&#39;s understood
that your man mustn&#39;t hit mine under any
circumstances, and he must stand perfectly
still or my man is sure to miss him.&quot;</p>
<p>Wallace said this was all right provided
Troy would come across afterwards with five
thousand dollars of whatever amount Lewis
gave the Viper.</p>
<p>The fans were delighted with the news that
at last they were going to get a look at the
Russian marvel and particularly that they
would see him in action against a fighter who
had always given them a run for their money.
A packed Arena was assured the instant the
bout was scheduled. It was given out that
the men had been secretly training so long and
so hard that very little additional preparation
would be necessary and the managers both
took leaves from Carpentier&#39;s book and announced <!-- "Carpentier" is inconsistent with "Carpenteer" earlier... -->
that their charges would put on the
finishing touches behind closed doors as they
were planning trick attacks and were afraid
of spies.</p>
<p>One exhibition was given by each, for newspaper
men only. Martinez was a little drawn,
but showed much of his old-time speed and
artistry in the two brief rounds he sparred.
For the Viper&#39;s first non-private demonstration,
Willie Troy engaged four big hams
who were to get fifty dollars apiece if Ivan
floored them and nothing if he didn&#39;t. They
all earned their pay. But one or two of the
hypercritical scribes remarked that the Russian
seemed clumsy and slow.</p>
<p>&quot;That&#39;s in his favor,&quot; said Troy quickly.
&quot;He looks like such a big, gawky bum that the
other fella thinks he ain&#39;t got nothing, and the
next minute, the other fella is laying in the
rosin not thinking at all.&quot;</p>
<p>On the night of the fight, the big crowd
gave Martinez a rousing cheer for old time&#39;s
sake. But they nearly tore the roof off the
building with their welcome to the Viper.
His appearance in street clothes had charmed
them before. In the nearly nude, with a lady&#39;s
figure tattooed on each huge arm and a picture
of the Easter Parade on the Nevsky Prospect
at the corner of Fiftieth Street, Petrograd,
covering his ample chest, he was nothing short
of irresistible.</p>
<p>Yet the storm of applause and yells that
marked his entrance was nothing compared
with the pandemonium which followed his
quick disposal of the former Rugged Rock,
who, appearing mystified by Ivan&#39;s clumsy,
amateurish advance, stood perfectly still with
his arms at his sides and received on the point
of his jaw a carefully aimed right-hand swing
that might easily have toppled Roxy&#39;s Theater.</p>
<p>Manuel&#39;s seconds did not wait for a count
but climbed through the ropes and carried
their unconscious burden to an exit where an
ambulance was waiting to take him to a more
comfortable bed than the one on which he
had flopped so emphatically. And the gulls
fought one another and trampled each other
under foot in their mad scramble to get close
to the new Killer, a foreigner with a punch
that made Luis Ángel Firpo&#39;s lethal thump
seem like Mrs. Coolidge&#39;s gentlest handshake.</p>
<p>Luke Lewis was riding on top of the world.
Little difference did it make to him now
whether or not the former champ, Jack Ryan,
would consent to come out of his retirement.
The Viper was a man who, matched with
Beau Burton, would draw the fifty-million-dollar
gate that had long been Luke&#39;s dream.
And the Viper would be the man to survive
the remaining trials even if all the Fitzgeralds
and Morans in New England had to be given
an annuity. Fitchburg&#39;s Fighting Fool and
the Malden Murderer would open the outdoor
season, the winner would be knocked for a
loop by the Viper, probably early in July, and
then it would only be necessary to lease acreage
enough to seat 50,000 of America&#39;s most
distinguished oafs at a thousand dollars per
oaf, for the grand September finale between
Beau Burton and Ivan Ivanovitch in what—well,
you could hardly call it less than the
Battle of the Millennium.</p>
<p>A few details must be arranged. First, there
must be a cancellation of a silly match between
Fitzgerald, Moran&#39;s New England rival,
and Jimmy Donohue, the 170-pounder, who
had suddenly become unreasonable and refused
to promise to lie down unless he was
sleepy. With this matter disposed of, it was
deemed wise to assure the public that the Viper
would be unable to fight again until he faced
the Fitzgerald-Moran winner, for the reason
that he could not get anyone to take the
chance that had resulted in the death of the
poor old Rugged Rock. Several &quot;logical contenders&quot;
rose to deny this, but were not believed
by a public gone Viper mad.</p>
<p>Came lovely May and the bout between the
Fraternal Order of 200-pound New Englanders,
a bout regarded in advance as a practical joke,
but one which brought the Fighting Fool
forward as a greatly improved athlete and an
impressive winner over the Murderer from
Malden. The Murderer, in fact, was sent to
the chair in Round Five, using the crawl
stroke to reach his destination.</p>
<p>In the papers of May 24 was a column
story to the effect that Frankie Fitzgerald and
Ivan Ivanovitch had been signed for the semifinal
match in the big elimination tournament
of heavyweights and that the match, for the
privilege of fighting Beau Burton for the
world&#39;s championship, would take place on
the evening of July 8.</p>
<p>On the evening of July 7, Sandy King, Luke
Lewis&#39;s dapper little press-agent, called up
the number of Mabel Ives and was told by
Mabel&#39;s mother that Mabel had gone out
driving; she didn&#39;t know with whom or when
she would be back. Sandy had made the
same call and had received the same reply on
innumerable previous evenings and had been
growing more and more depressed.</p>
<p>Tonight his depression was so great that he
felt nothing but a long taxi ride would relieve
it. The taxi deposited his 123 pounds of
youth and sartorial perfection at an address
in the Bronx—the combination dwelling and
gymnasium of Willie Troy.</p>
<p>The colored man who answered the door
said the Viper had retired.</p>
<p>&quot;He hasn&#39;t retired yet,&quot; said Sandy, &quot;but
he&#39;s about to.&quot;</p>
<p>Whereupon he brushed unceremoniously
past the guard and found Ivan Ivanovitch
alone in the living-room, trying to spell out
some of the shorter words on the sporting page.</p>
<p>&quot;Where&#39;s my gal?&quot; said Sandy.</p>
<p>&quot;What do you mean?&quot; asked the Viper.</p>
<p>&quot;What I mean and who I mean is Mabel
Ives,&quot; replied Mr. King. &quot;I know all about it.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well,&quot; said the Viper, &quot;she&#39;s went home.
But if you knowed all about it, you wouldn&#39;t
be calling her your gal. She&#39;s been my gal
pretty near ever since I bashed that poor
Espagnola. It was them tattoo pictures that
made her love me.&quot;</p>
<p> &quot;Would you like her to love you a little
 stronger?&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;You bet I would! She&#39;s a fine gal.&quot;</p>
<p>&quot;Well, then,&quot; said Sandy, &quot;stand up &#39;cause
I&#39;m going to tattoo you some more.&quot;</p>
<p>When, half an hour later, Willie Troy returned
from a final conference with Luke
Lewis and the manager of Frankie Fitzgerald,
he found the Venomous Viper moaning on the
lounge while a retainer tried with various
lotions and compresses to reduce the swelling
of two discolored eyes and check the insistent
flow of what is sometimes called the carmine,
from a remodeled and unbecoming mouth
and nose.</p>
<p>And next day Luke Lewis was begging Jack
Ryan by telegraph to state his lowest terms
for an early match with Fitchburg&#39;s Fighting
Fool.</p>
</article>
</body>
</html>