<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Travelogue</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="travelogue" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Travelogue</h2>
			<p>They met for the first time at luncheon in the diner of the west-bound limited that had left Chicago the night before. The girls, it turned out, were Hazel Dignan and her friend Mildred Orr. The man was Dan Chapman.</p>
			<p>He it was who broke the ice by asking if they minded riding backwards. It was Hazel who answered. She was a seasoned traveler and knew how to talk to strangers. Mildred had been hardly anywhere and had little to say, even when she knew people.</p>
			<p>“Not at all,” was Hazel’s reply to his polite query. “I’m so used to trains that I believe I could ride on top of them and not be uncomfortable.”</p>
			<p>“Imagine,” put in Mildred, “riding on top of a train!”</p>
			<p>“Many’s the time I’ve done it!” said their new acquaintance. “Freight-trains, though; not passenger-trains. And it was when I was a kid.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t see how you dared,” said Mildred.</p>
			<p>“I guess I was a kind of a reckless, wild kid,” he said. “It’s a wonder I didn’t get killed, the chances I took. Some kids takes lots of chances; that is, boys.”</p>
			<p>“Girls do, too,” said Hazel quickly. “Girls take just as many chances as boys.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, no, Hazel!” remonstrated her friend, and received an approving look from the male.</p>
			<p>“Where are you headed for?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Frisco first and then Los Angeles,” Hazel replied.</p>
			<p>“Listen⁠—let me give you a tip. Don’t say ‘Frisco’ in front of them native sons. They don’t like that nickname.”</p>
			<p>“I should worry what they like and don’t like!” said Hazel, rather snootily, Mildred thought.</p>
			<p>“This your first trip out there?” Chapman inquired.</p>
			<p>“No,” Hazel answered to Mildred’s surprise, for the purpose of the journey, she had been led to believe, was to give Hazel a glimpse of one of the few parts of America that she had never visited.</p>
			<p>“How long since you was out there last?” asked Chapman.</p>
			<p>“Let’s see,” said Hazel. “It’s been⁠—” She was embarrassed by Mildred’s wondering look. “I don’t know exactly. I’ve forgotten.”</p>
			<p>“This is about my fiftieth trip,” said Chapman. “If you haven’t been⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I like Florida better,” interrupted Hazel. “I generally go there in the winter.”</p>
			<p>“ ‘Generally!’ ” thought Mildred, who had reliable information that the previous winter had been her friend’s first in the South.</p>
			<p>“I used to go to Palm Beach every year,” said Chapman, “but that was before it got common. It seems to be that the people that goes to Florida now, well, they’re just riffraff.”</p>
			<p>“The people that go to Tampa aren’t riffraff,” said Hazel. “I met some lovely people there last winter, especially one couple, the Babcocks. From Racine. They were perfectly lovely to me. We played Mah Jongg nearly every evening. They wanted me to come up and visit them in Racine this last summer, but something happened. Oh, yes; Sis’s nurse got married. She was a Swedish girl. Just perfect! And Sis had absolute confidence in her.</p>
			<p>“I always say that when a Swede is good, they’re <span class="it">good</span>! Now she’s got a young girl about nineteen that’s wild about movie actors and so absent-minded that Sis is scared to death she’ll give Junior coffee and drink his milk herself. Just crazy! Jennie, her name is. So I didn’t get up to Racine.”</p>
			<p>“Ever been out to Yellowstone?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, isn’t it wonderful!” responded Hazel. “Isn’t ‘Old Faithful’ just fascinating! You see,” she explained to Mildred, “It’s one of the geysers and they call it ‘Old Faithful’ because it spouts every hour and ten minutes or something, just as regular as clockwork. Wonderful! And the different falls and canyons! Wonderful! And what a wonderful view from Inspiration Point!”</p>
			<p>“Ever been to the Thousand Islands?” asked Chapman.</p>
			<p>“Wonderful! And I was going up there again last summer with a girl friend of mine, Bess Eldridge. She was engaged to a man named Harley Bateman. A wonderful fellow when he wasn’t drinking, but when he’d had a few drinks, he was just terrible. So Bess and I were in Chicago and we went to a show; Eddie Cantor. It was the first time I ever saw him when he wasn’t blacked up. Well, we were walking out of the theater that night and who should we run into but Harley Bateman, terribly boiled, and a girl from Elkhart, Joan Killian. So Bess broke off her engagement and last fall she married a man named Wannop who’s interested in flour-mills or something up in Minneapolis. So I didn’t get to the Thousand Islands after all. That is, a second time.</p>
			<p>“But I always think that if a person hasn’t taken that trip, they haven’t seen anything. And Bess would have certainly enjoyed it. She used to bite her finger-nails till she didn’t have any left. But she married this man from Minneapolis.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>After luncheon the three moved to the observation-car and made a brave effort to be interested in what passes for scenery in Nebraska.</p>
			<p>For no possible reason, it reminded Chapman of Northern Michigan.</p>
			<p>“Have you ever been up in Northern Michigan?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, indeed,” said Hazel. “I visited a week once in Petoskey. Some friends of mine named Gilbert. They had their own launch. Ina Gilbert⁠—that’s Mrs. Gilbert⁠—her hair used to be the loveliest thing in the world and she had typhoid or something and lost nearly all of it. So we played Mah Jongg every afternoon and evening.”</p>
			<p>“I mean ’way up,” said Chapman. “Mackinac Island and the Upper Peninsula, the Copper Country.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, wonderful!” said Hazel. “Calumet and Houghton and Hancock! Wonderful! And the boat trip is wonderful! Though I guess I was about the only one that thought so. Everybody else was sick. The captain said it was the roughest trip he’d ever been on, and he had lived on the Great Lakes for forty years. And another time I went across from Chicago to St. Joseph. But that wasn’t so rough. We visited the House of David in Benton Harbor. They wear long beards. We were almost in hysterics, Marjorie Trumbull and I. But the time I went to Petoskey, I went alone.”</p>
			<p>“You see a lot of Finns up in that Northern Peninsula,” remarked Chapman.</p>
			<p>“Yes, and Sis had a Finnish maid once. She couldn’t hardly understand a word of English. She was a Finn. Sis finally had to let her go. Now she has an Irish girl for a maid and Jennie takes care of the kiddies. Poor little Dickie, my nephew, he’s nearly seven and of course he’s lost all his front teeth. He looks terrible! Teeth do make such a difference! My friends always say they envy me my teeth.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Talking about teeth,” said Chapman, “you see this?” He opened his mouth and pointed to a large, dark vacancy where once had dwelt a molar. “I had that one pulled in Milwaukee the day before yesterday. The fella said I better take gas, but I said no. So he said, ‘Well, you must be pretty game.’ I said I faced German shell-fire for sixteen months and I guess I ain’t going to be a-scared of a little forceps. Well, he said afterwards that it was one of the toughest teeth he ever pulled. The roots were the size of your little finger. And the tooth itself was full of⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I only had one tooth pulled in my life,” said Hazel. “I’d been suffering from rheumatism and somebody suggested that it might be from a tooth, but I couldn’t believe it at first because my teeth are so perfect. But I hadn’t slept in months on account of these pains in my arms and limbs. So finally, just to make sure, I went to a dentist, old Doctor Platt, and he pulled this tooth”⁠—she showed him where it had been⁠—“and my rheumatism disappeared just like that. It was terrible not to be able to sleep because I generally sleep like a log. And I do now, since I got my tooth pulled.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t sleep very good on trains,” said Chapman.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I do. Probably on account of being so used to it. I slept just beautifully last night. Mildred here insisted on taking the upper. She said if she was where she could look out the window, she never would go to sleep. Personally, I’d just as lief have the upper. I don’t mind it a bit. I like it really better. But this is Mildred’s first long trip and I thought she ought to have her choice. We tried to get a compartment or drawing-room, but they were all gone. Sis and I had a compartment the time we went to New Orleans. I slept in the upper.”</p>
			<p>Mildred wished she had gone places so she could take part in the conversation. Mr. Chapman must think she was terribly dumb.</p>
			<p>She had nothing to talk about that people would care to hear, and it was kind of hard to keep awake when you weren’t talking yourself, even with such interesting, traveled people to listen to as Mr. Chapman and Hazel. Mr. Chapman was a dandy-looking man and it was terrible to have to appear dumb in front of him.</p>
			<p>But after all, she <span class="it">was</span> dumb and Hazel’s erudition made her seem all the dumber. No wonder their new acquaintance had scarcely looked at her since luncheon.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“Have you ever been to San Antone?” Chapman asked his companions.</p>
			<p>“Isn’t it wonderful!” Hazel exclaimed. “The Alamo! Wonderful! And those dirty Mexicans! And Salt Lake City is wonderful, too! That temple! And swimming in the lake itself is one of the most fascinating experiences! You know, Mildred, the water is so salt that you can’t sink in it. You just lie right on top of it like it was a floor. You can’t sink. And another wonderful place is Lake Placid. I was going back there last summer with Bess Eldridge, but she was engaged at the time to Harley Bateman, an awfully nice boy when he wasn’t drinking, but perfectly terrible when he’d had a few drinks. He went to college with my brother, to Michigan. Harley tried for the football nine, but the coach hated him. His father was a druggist and owned the first automobile in Berrien County. So we didn’t go to Placid last summer, but I’m going next summer sure. And it’s wonderful in winter, too!”</p>
			<p>“It feels funny, where that tooth was,” said Chapman.</p>
			<p>“Outside of one experience,” said Hazel, “I’ve never had any trouble with my teeth. I’d been suffering from rheumatism and somebody suggested it might be a bad tooth, but I couldn’t believe it because my teeth are perfect⁠—”</p>
			<p>“This was all shot to pieces,” said Chapman.</p>
			<p>“But my friends always say they envy me my teeth; my teeth and my complexion. I try to keep my mouth clean and my face clean, and I guess that’s the answer. But it’s hard to keep clean on a train.”</p>
			<p>“Where are you going? Out to the coast?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Frisco and then Los Angeles.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t call it Frisco in front of them Californians. They don’t like their city to be called Frisco. Is this your first trip out there?”</p>
			<p>“No. I was there a good many years ago.”</p>
			<p>She turned to Mildred.</p>
			<p>“You didn’t know that, did you?” she said. But Mildred was asleep. “Poor Mildred! She’s worn out. She isn’t used to traveling. She’s quite a pretty girl, don’t you think so?”</p>
			<p>“Very pretty!”</p>
			<p>“Maybe not exactly pretty,” said her friend, “but kind of sweet-looking, like a baby. You’d think all the men would be crazy about her, but they aren’t. Lots of people don’t even think she’s pretty and I suppose you can’t be really pretty unless you have more expression in your face than she’s got. Poor Mildred hasn’t had many advantages.”</p>
			<p>“At this time of year, I’d rather be in Atlantic City than San Francisco.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, isn’t Atlantic City wonderful! There’s only one Atlantic City! And I really like it better in the winter. Nobody but nice people go there in the winter. In the summer-time it’s different. I’m no snob, but I don’t mind saying that I hate to mix up with some people a person has to meet at these resort places. Terrible! Two years ago I went to Atlantic City with Bess Eldridge. Like a fool I left it to her to make the reservations and she wired the Traymore, she says, but they didn’t have anything for us. We tried the Ritz and the Ambassador and everywhere else, but we couldn’t get in anywhere, that is, anywhere a person would want to stay. Bess was engaged to Harley Bateman at the time. Now she’s married a man named Wannop from Minneapolis. But this time I speak of, we went to Philadelphia and stayed all night with my aunt and we had scrapple and liver and bacon for breakfast. Harley was a dandy boy when he wasn’t drinking. But give me Atlantic City any time of the year!”</p>
			<p>“I’ve got to send a telegram at Grand Island.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, if I sent one from there, when would it get to Elkhart?”</p>
			<p>“Tonight or tomorrow morning.”</p>
			<p>“I want to wire my sister.”</p>
			<p>“Well, wire her from Grand Island.”</p>
			<p>“I think I’ll wait and wire her from Frisco.”</p>
			<p>“But we won’t be in San Francisco for over two days yet.”</p>
			<p>“But we change time before then, don’t we?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, we change at North Platte.”</p>
			<p>“Then I think I’ll wire her from Grand Island.”</p>
			<p>“Your sister, you say?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. My sister Lucy. She married Jack Kingston, the Kingston tire people.”</p>
			<p>“It certainly feels empty, where that tooth was,” said Chapman.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>As the train pulled out of North Platte, later in the afternoon, Chapman rejoined the two girls in the observation-car.</p>
			<p>“Now, girls,” he said, “you can set your watches back an hour. We change time here. We were Central time and now we’re Mountain time.”</p>
			<p>“Mountain time,” repeated Mildred. “I suppose that’s where the expression started, ‘it’s high time.’ ”</p>
			<p>Hazel and Chapman looked blank and Mildred blushed. She felt she had made a mistake saying anything at all. She opened her book, “Carlyle on Cromwell and Others,” which Rev. N. L. Veach had given her for Christmas.</p>
			<p>“Have you ever been to Washington?” Chapman asked Hazel.</p>
			<p>“Oh, isn’t it beautiful! ‘The City of Magnificent Distances.’ Wonderful! I was there two years ago with Bess Eldridge. We were going to meet the President, but something happened. Oh, yes; Bess got a wire from Harley Bateman that he was going to get in that afternoon. And he never came at all. He was awfully nice when he wasn’t drinking, and just terrible when he drank. Bess broke off her engagement to him and married a man named Wannop, who owned some flour-mills in Minneapolis. She was a dandy girl, but bit her finger-nails just terribly. So we didn’t get to see the President, but we sat through two or three sessions of the Senate and House. Do you see how they ever get anything done? And we went to Rock Creek Park and Mount Vernon and Arlington Cemetery and Keith’s.</p>
			<p>“Moran and Mack were there; you know, the black-face comedians. Moran, or maybe it’s Mack, whichever is the little one, he says to the other⁠—I’ve forgotten just how it went, but they were simply screaming and I thought Bess and I would be put out. We just howled. And the last night we were there we saw Thomas Meighan in ‘Old Home Week.’ Wonderful! Harley Bateman knows Thomas Meighan personally. He’s got a beautiful home out on Long Island. He invited Harley out there to dinner one night, but something happened. Oh, yes; Harley lost a front tooth once and he had a false one put in and this day he ate some caramels and the tooth came out⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Look here,” said Chapman, opening his mouth and pointing in it. “I got that one pulled in Milwaukee⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Harley was a perfect peach when he was sober, but terrible when⁠—”</p>
			<p>It occurred to Mildred that her presence might be embarrassing. Here were evidently kindred spirits, two people who had been everywhere and seen everything. But of course they couldn’t talk anything but geography and dentistry before her.</p>
			<p>“I think I’ll go to our car and take a little nap,” she said.</p>
			<p>“Oh, don’t⁠—” began Chapman surprisingly, but stopped there.</p>
			<p>She was gone and the kindred spirits were alone.</p>
			<p>“I suppose,” said Chapman, “you’ve been to Lake Louise.”</p>
			<p>“Wonderful!” Hazel responded. “Did you ever see anything as pretty in your life? They talk about the lakes of Ireland and Scotland and Switzerland, but I don’t believe they can compare with Lake Louise. I was there with Bess Eldridge just before she got engaged to Harley Bateman. He was⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Your friend’s a mighty pretty girl.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose some people would think her pretty. It’s a matter of individual taste.”</p>
			<p>“Very quiet, isn’t she?”</p>
			<p>“Poor Mildred hasn’t much to say. You see, she’s never had any advantages and there’s really nothing she can talk about. But what was I saying? Oh, yes; about Harley Bateman⁠—”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“I think that’s a good idea, taking a little nap. I believe I’ll try it, too.”</p>
			<p>Hazel and Chapman lunched alone next day.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid Mildred is a little train sick,” said Hazel. “She says she is all right but just isn’t hungry. I guess the trip has been a little too much for her. You see, this is the first time she’s ever been anywhere at all.”</p>
			<p>The fact was that Mildred did not like to be stared at and Chapman had stared at her all through dinner the night before, stared at her, she thought, as if she were a curiosity, as if he doubted that one so dumb could be real. She liked him, too, and it would have been so nice if she had been more like Hazel, never at a loss for something to say and able to interest him in her conversation.</p>
			<p>“We’ll be in Ogden in half an hour,” said Chapman. “We stay there twenty-five minutes. That ought to give your friend a chance to get over whatever ails her. She should get out and walk around and get some air.”</p>
			<p>“You seem quite interested in Mildred,” Hazel said.</p>
			<p>“She’s a mighty attractive girl,” he replied. “And besides, I feel sorry for anybody that⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Men don’t usually find her attractive. She’s pretty in a way, but it’s a kind of a babyish face.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think so at all⁠—”</p>
			<p>“We change time here again, don’t we?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Another hour back. We’ve been on Mountain time and now we go to Pacific time. Some people say it’s bad for a watch to turn it backwards, but it never seemed to hurt mine any. This watch⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I bought this watch of mine in New York,” said Hazel. “It was about two years ago, the last time Bess Eldridge and I went East. Let’s see; was that before or after she broke her engagement to Harley Bateman? It was before. But Harley said he knew the manager of the Belmont and he would wire him and get us a good room. Well, of course, he forgot to wire, so we finally got into the Pennsylvania, Room 1012. No, Room 1014. It was some people from Pittsburgh, a Mr. and Mrs. Bradbury, in 1012. He was lame. Bess wanted to see Jeanne Eagels in ‘Rain’ and we tried to get tickets at the newsstand, but they said fifteenth row. We finally went to the Palace that night. Ina Claire was on the bill. So the next morning we came down to breakfast and who should we run into but Dave Homan! We’d met him at French Lick in the spring. Isn’t French Lick wonderful!</p>
			<p>“Well, Dave insisted on ‘showing’ us New York, like we didn’t know it backwards. But we did have a dandy time. Dave kept us in hysterics. I remember he took us to the Aquarium and of course a lot of other people were in there and Dave gave one of the attendants a quarter to page Mr. Fish. I thought they’d put us out, we screamed so! Dave asked me to marry him once, just jokingly, and I told him I wouldn’t think of it because I had heard it made people fat to laugh and if I lived with him I would soon have to buy my clothes from a tent-maker. Dave said we would make a great pair as we both have such a keen sense of humor. Honestly, I wouldn’t give up my sense of humor for all the money in the world. I don’t see how people can live without a sense of humor. Mildred, for instance; she never sees the funny side of things unless you make her a diagram and even then she looks at you like she thought you were deranged.</p>
			<p>“But I was telling you about Dave Homan. We were talking along about one thing and another and I happened to mention Harley Bateman and Dave said, ‘Harley Bateman! Do you know Harley Bateman?’ and Bess and I smiled at each other and I said I guessed we did. Well, it seems that Dave and Harley had been at Atlantic City together at a Lions’ convention or something and they had some drinks and Dave had a terrible time keeping a policeman from locking Harley up. He’s just as different when he’s drinking as day and night. Dave got him out of it all right and they met again later on, in Chicago. Or was it Duluth? So the next day was Wednesday and Dave asked Bess and I to go to the matinée of ‘Rain,’ but Bess had an engagement with a dentist⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Do you see this?” interrupted Chapman, opening his mouth wide.</p>
			<p>“So Dave took me alone and he said he had been hoping for that chance right along. He said three was a crowd. I believe if I had given him any encouragement⁠—But the man I marry must be something more than clever and witty. I like men that have been around and seen things and studied human nature and have a background. Of course they must see the funny side, too. That’s the trouble with Dave Homan⁠—he can’t be serious. Harley Bateman is twice as much of a man if he wouldn’t drink. It’s like two different people when he drinks. He’s terrible! Bess Eldridge was engaged to him, but she broke it off after we happened to see him in Chicago one time with Joan Killian, from Elkhart. Bess is married now, to a man named Wannop, a flour man from Minneapolis. So after the matinée we met Bess. She’d been to the dentist⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Three days ago, in Milwaukee⁠—” began Chapman.</p>
			<p>“So the next afternoon we were taking the boat for Boston. I’d been to Boston before, of course, but never by boat. Harley Bateman told us it was a dandy trip, so we decided to try it. Well, we left New York at five o’clock and Bess and I were up on deck when somebody came up behind us and put their hands over my eyes and said, ‘Guess who it is?’ Well, I couldn’t have guessed in a hundred years. It was Clint Poole from South Bend. Imagine! Harley Bateman’s brother-in-law!”</p>
			<p>“Here’s Ogden,” said Chapman as the train slowed down.</p>
			<p>“Oh, and I’ve got to send Sis a telegram! My sister Lucy Kingston.”</p>
			<p>“I think I’ll get out and get some air,” said Chapman, but he went first to the car where Mildred sat reading.</p>
			<p>“Miss Mildred,” he said, “suppose you have breakfast with me early tomorrow morning. I’d like to show you the snow-sheds.”</p>
			<p>“That would be wonderful!” said Mildred. “I’ll tell Hazel.”</p>
			<p>“No,” said Chapman. “Please don’t tell Hazel. I’d like to show them to you alone.”</p>
			<p>Well, even if Mildred had been used to trains, that remark would have interfered seriously with her night’s sleep.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Mildred found Chapman awaiting her in the diner next morning, an hour west of Truckee.</p>
			<p>“Are those the snow-sheds you spoke of?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” he replied, “but we’ll talk about them later. First I want to ask you a few questions.”</p>
			<p>“Ask <span class="it">me</span> questions!” said Mildred. “Well, they’ll have to be simple ones or I won’t be able to answer them.”</p>
			<p>“They’re simple enough,” said Chapman. “The first one is, do you know Harley Bateman?”</p>
			<p>“I know <span class="it">of</span> him, but I don’t know him.”</p>
			<p>“Do you know Bess Eldridge?”</p>
			<p>“Just to speak to; that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“What other trips have you taken besides this?”</p>
			<p>“None at all. This is really the first time I’ve ever been anywhere.”</p>
			<p>“Has your friend ever been engaged?”</p>
			<p>“Yes; twice. It was broken off both times.”</p>
			<p>“I bet I know why. There was no place to take her on a honeymoon.”</p>
			<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, nothing. Say, did I tell you about getting my tooth pulled in Milwaukee?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe so,” said Mildred.</p>
			<p>“Well, I had a terrible toothache. It was four days ago. And I thought there was no use fooling with it, so I went to a dentist and told him to pull it. He said I’d better take gas, but I wouldn’t. So he pulled it and it pretty near killed me, but I never batted an eye. He said it was one of the toughest teeth he’d ever seen; roots as big as your little finger. And the tooth itself full of poison.”</p>
			<p>“How terrible! You must be awfully brave!”</p>
			<p>“Look here, at the hole,” said Chapman, opening his mouth.</p>
			<p>“Why, Mr. Chapman, it must have hurt horribly!”</p>
			<p>“Call me Dan.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I couldn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Well, listen⁠—are you going to be with Miss Hazel all the time you’re in San Francisco?”</p>
			<p>“Why, no,” said Mildred. “Hazel is going to visit her aunt in Berkeley part of the time. And I’m going to stop at the Fairmont.”</p>
			<p>“When is she going to Berkeley?”</p>
			<p>“Next Tuesday, I think.”</p>
			<p>“Can I phone you next Wednesday?”</p>
			<p>“But Hazel will be gone then.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I know,” said Chapman, “but if you don’t mind, I’ll phone you just the same. Now about these snow-sheds⁠—”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
